**<u>13/03/2025</u>**

\| <sub>,</sub>W \|
\| .Bitcoin’s Whale, / \|

\| **A.Stega-nalysis,**\|
A. Fauvel

# Abstract

The world has changed significantly since the release of the Bitcoin
whitepaper. The digital asset BTC peaking just weeks ago,
18<sup>th</sup> of December 2024 and the 22<sup>nd</sup> of January
2025, traded for a staggering \$106,000 per BTC thus a market cap of
\$2.1Trillion USD. This asset is supposed to be accurately described by
its founding document that gave it the name Bitcoin, the Bitcoin White
Paper. This is what its investors believe, but not what the developers
or technically inclined would tell you. Further, because the creator of
the Bitcoin system is nowhere to be seen there is no real authority to
pinpoint the nature of their invention. It is possible that the authors
name resides within the paper and has yet to be extracted with the right
method as it is hidden as an interpretation of the paper itself using a
Stegonographic method. The solution will while unique due to the method
of encoding will be unambiguous and publicly verifiable by observation
of surrounding contextual information and verification elements of the
puzzle as computer protocol elements such as checksums. In conclusion we
identified the author of the paper and thus individual behind the
illusive Satoshi Nakamoto, conclusively.

# Motivation

There have been comments in court that certain individuals have proof
they are the author of the Bitcoin Whitepaper that are not cryptographic
in nature. This information came to light during the questioning of such
an individual in an administrative high court in the United Kingdom
about the identity of Satoshi Nakamoto. At the time of this comment
Steganographic techniques were being discussed. While details were not
shared this requires further investigation. If steganographic methods
have been used on the PDF via software or otherwise, it must leave
traces that we could possibly follow and hope to unmask its author once
and for all.

This being such a large world “mystery”, I thought it best to document
the method as I performed it. Satisfied I had the correct method, I then
went over the document adding context and reordering some of my findings
to round off any rough edges and bring forth a cohesive story that the
reader can understand. Although we make a lot of assumptions throughout,
our result must answer at least some of our questions about the
authorship to be convincing and utilise known features that can
reasonably be interpreted by someone skilled or practiced in decoding
steganography. Steganography’s main security feature is that the naïve
readers are unaware that it has been used. If one were to simply go
looking for it appropriately, they would likely find it were it would be
logical to use it. Most people don’t scan every document looking for
signs of manipulation. As such can be transmitted publicly without
detection by the public. This does however mean that people may be able
to decode it and unwilling or unable to discuss it openly. This report
is aimed at breaking down this language barrier allowing the reader to
understand how we got to our result and why.

While I give my own conclusions at the end, they are merely my opinions
which should not be looked at as bias but merely the right motivation to
go looking and publicise my findings.

# Steg-analysis

It shouldn’t be too hard to believe that people wish to communicate
secretly within or without set groups. Traditionally people assume
complex cryptographic systems are the best form of secret communication.
However, many of these complex mathematical systems fail in a few areas
in which people may wish to use it. The main failure from a secret
message senders’ perspective is plausible deniability or surveillance by
unknown eavesdroppers today, or in the future.

In a cryptographic system there is a set protocol that is widely known.
When this protocol is applied to a message that we wish to investigate
it typically requires a private key to be used at the same time. This
key can either be retrieved or generated by parties depending on their
relationship, for good cryptographic systems an enemy shouldn’t be able
to independently generate either part of the key within a reasonable
time frame. Ideally until the end of the universe without being too
cumbersome to use day to day.

The art of steganography though, while it achieves a similar goal to
cryptography is an entirely different process. In steganography, while
basic frameworks utilised are widely known, the exact methodology for
each message is kept as a protected secret. The concealment method must
use a host message to communicate how to produce the message. This host
message will dictate the medium the message can take and thus, the type
of rules we might be able to create to conceal it.

You should now understand why Steganography is fundamentally different
to cryptography. It is a messy art but creates order out of something
that looks chaotic. You must realise though, that you are only reading
these words in this order because that is what you have been told to do.
It’s what the author expects you to do as they wrote it for the purpose
of being read in that way. This mutual protocol in language is the only
way to transmit a message that produces a common understanding.

A truly secret message has not context to which it can be related,
however, nothing exists in isolation, thus a selectively secret message,
with meaning, cannot be prevented from being exposed to the public. The
only mitigating action once exposed is to deny, which if done correctly
is plausibly believed.

In the 16th-century a German author, Johannes Tritheism adviser to a
number-of emperors and a “humanist” published a 3-part book titled
“Steganographia”. The first 2 books were relatively unremarkable
although highly coveted cryptography books, however, book 3 was quite
the deviation. This was what appeared to be a spell book of occult
magic. Written in Latin the Roman Catholic Church quickly band it. Its
title is Greek, ‘Stega’ meaning covered ‘o-graphia’ meaning writing.
Fitting that the author would title a book on hidden writings in a
language that it is not written in. Also, fitting that the third book in
the trilogy was completely misunderstood as we can assume was the
author’s intention since it was used as a cover. Steganography is a
language hidden within a language. This has [been proven to be the
case](https://web.archive.org/web/20140216203306/http:/www.nytimes.com/1998/04/14/science/a-mystery-unraveled-twice.html)
by two independent European researchers. If you want to know what the
message is, you will have to look elsewhere as I have not read it
myself.

From a fundamental perspective, in cryptography you would be able to
write cypher text on a blank sheet of paper. For steganography you need
a cover/host message or medium to conceal the message from view and thus
classified as hidden. If you were to apply steganography to a blank
sheet of paper there are two main methods, either you mark the paper in
other ways and then add your message to it by manipulating the marks.
This is best done throughout the host/cover messages creation so that
they could mean something other than what they may first appear, or you
make them such that the marks can’t be seen on the paper at all. This is
a subtle but fundamental difference between crypto and stega-nography.
This fundamental difference in mechanisms and set up requirements
changes the way they are used. Cryptography is typically reserved for
personal privacy or communications, while Steganography is used for
rights management and secret communications with a cover. Most
critically cryptography uses lots of mathematical armour, steganography
uses “smoke and mirrors” (misdirection) as a core architectural feature.

The application of rights management makes logical sense if you
understand that steganography requires two messages occupy the same
space. One that is seen, and one that is selectively revealed. The
reveal is referred to as a ‘decode’ in modern day stega’ parlance. This
dual delivery mechanism allows those that wield the skill to deliver
content throughout society creating an information asymmetry. The
commercial application of this technique today is digital rights
management (DRM) software. Its model’s security relies on the honesty of
participants. The content is embedded with uniquely identifying
information that is intentionally difficult to detect and/or remove
effectively without seriously degrading the information.

A digital watermark might look like a company logo in the corner of the
screen or transparently over laid onto the centre of media content, this
is a non-secret example of how it is used to deter people from acting
dishonestly. A more advanced system creates “noise” within the image
which is imperceivable to the naked eye but can be decoded even if the
data is damaged or compressed. This works by creating something like a
QR code and making the difference between white and black a very small
difference in colour grade. In other words, reduced contrast until, to
you and me, it just looks Gray, only using a computer could we ever hope
to tell the difference. This unique information is then transparently
overlayed as tiles on top of the host content in various sizes and over
lapping such that even if cropped or distorted one of the “QR-codes”
will likely be detected and decoded. Elements of this code could be the
size of a single pixel or a significant percentage of the screen.

Today, we haven’t reached the level of traceability, where everything
delivered online uses a digital rights management technique embedding
unique information into the content to be delivered. With the speed at
which the computation industry is developing, it might not be too long.
However, we must always consider the application of technology when
deploying it, sometimes it is mission critical, sometimes it is a nice
to have, other times it is a nuisance that is unnecessary. Whatever the
case, the uses of technology can always be positive and negative
depending on how they are deployed. For normal people what we are about
to attempt is like magic or brute forcing the solution we want. Yet,
taking something as ordinary as a spam email or academic paper, and
pulling something we recognise from it in a way that is unique but
repeatable is a little hard to believe, just has a method that is not
understood. It’s not madness, just a miscommunication.

To many this is a dark art. So logically speaking, a dark and mysterious
character like Satoshi maybe well-versed in it. They seem to be a world
class expert in every other we have seen them utilise. This is well
documented as no matter how hard people may try, all attempts to
identify him/her or them remain inconclusive. If they did leave a secret
message within their paper, decoding it could be the
“magic-bullet-proof-proof” the world has been waiting for.

More clandestine uses are to deliver content to the public and secret
information to a small group of insiders. This could either be to
communicate stock trades, confidential information by informants or
plans for world domination. In summary this darker side of steganography
could probably appropriately be called a technology of spies and
criminals.

A common way people use steganography without realising it is to make
intentional spelling errors to convey meaning other than what the words
themselves read. Most commonly “U” in place or “you” or the less common
IYKYK \[If you know, you know\]. A combination of emojis complimenting
text can also be considered a form of steganography, directing readers
to wherever the author most desires. If someone can read a word in
context with the spelling error a reader may be able to infer what is
being communicated. Corn or something like \|\*orn communicates the
meaning without necessarily using all the completely correct characters.
People very commonly use this kind of intentional manipulation to reduce
the size of a message or, when hiding, to avoid surveillance, censors
and filters.

The author having just decoded an intricate message embedded in an
[email from 1997](https://marc.info/?l=cypherpunks&m=95279197520093&w=2)
on the CypherPunk Mailing List (CP-ML) using steganography feels
confident that they can spot intricate intentional errors that indicate
and infer instructions. After all the CypherPunks (CP) claim that
Satoshi is one of them and that Bitcoin is their own invention, so maybe
the mailing list will also provide some insight on who authored it, if
only we look at it in their language. The puzzle on the mailing list is
quite simple in comparison to what we should expect from an academic
like paper, errors in a paper that is to be taken seriously are a lot
less acceptable in academia and would arouse suspicion.

One of the most ancient subsets of steganography, “Text-Form-matting,
Erorr”, or TFE is used extremely frequently on the CP mailing list and
are intended to look like spam adverts. However, they are not your run
of the mill spam mails the public is used to receiving. Through the lens
of steganalysis they are highly targeted adverts sent to a unique
audience who have a high chance of converting even with the additional
work it takes to decode them. If you want to compare steganography with
today’s technology each message is like a little computer program
written in its own language where an out of place comma is the
difference between a cover and the message the messenger genuinely
wished to send. This is partly why the people that most use it has an in
depth understanding of code. Of course, not all coders have been sending
secret messages to one another, there is just a significant amount of
overlap in skill sets.

Although this decode is very different from the ones found on the
CypherPunk Mailing List it is believed that the principles used will
likely be the same. Steganography, while unique every time it is
applied, follows some core principles which allow a method of
communication which takes extraordinary effort to interpret and refine
into a message that the either party is confident in has been
communicated correctly. In effect steganography is a technique that can
take longer, considerably longer, to read that it did to write (cover
not included). Making a puzzle out of a picture simply requires cutting
it with a die, putting the puzzle together again is something of a slow,
interpretation and consideration, trial and error, refinement process.
Each piece fitting together one by one is the only way to make progress.

As you should know by now, you need a cover to start creating a message
using steganography, as such steganographic methods are typically
employed when finalizing a document. The author choosing which errors to
keep along the way. Looking for any additional messages or hints that
they may be able to sneak past regular reader but might be noticed by a
keen investigator. As such it doesn’t take that long to create a puzzle
such as this one, nowhere near as long as it takes to solve them. A
puzzle this complex while it took a lot of time to consider, probably
took a few hours or days to implement depending on the exact methods
used and how complete our final solution ends up being. If we can tell
at all.

While it does happen frequently in practice, it is not advised to create
a cover that is not genuine to send a message, this would cause too much
suspicion for investigators that you don’t want to suspect anything. An
unnatural cover that needs to be generated doesn’t have enough links to
the real world to be believable. A covert spam email advertising a
criminal racket for example, would need a real business or person for
the organisation to point to if the investigators are going to be
assured nothing else is really happening. To be truly covert, and from a
design perspective, sometimes less is more pleasing and ideal for the
application. Ambiguity leading to many possible paths. Yet, this
ambiguity must not be so unmanageable and overwhelming that it no longer
has meaning to the reader no matter which side of the informed vs
uninformed aisle they may fall. Both messages need to be understood by
their respective parties for the method to be effective. Ideally with
little to no cross communication or contamination between the groups.

Being a steganography puzzle, what we are looking for must relate to the
cover used. Written under a pseudonym, leaving the world so many
questions, ideally are looking for something related to an identity such
as a name, date, place or organisation. To get this message out of the
text, we will be searching for a method of extraction which relates to
the information we are reading about, not necessarily the information we
are looking for. The first signs we will be looking for are plausibly
deniable errors that are on the edge of acceptable. These artifacts will
not be obvious but must be present.

Finding a method that might yield a meaningful message seems like a very
daunting task. Especially if the method is complex, the instructions are
probably also complex. The author would have had to covertly enter them
into the paper as entire sentences or paragraphs. The number of logical
leaps we will have to take while they might be numerous should, in
theory and practice if used consistently throughout, be limited by the
medium and the message. As a famous youtuber once said, for any problem
there exists a solution with a finite number of problems to fix. Once we
are finished there should be significantly fewer mistakes in the paper,
if any at all. This depends on the skill of this secretive author and
messenger.

If this message is to be confirmed in any meaningful way it must be
related to the subject matter and events surrounding the puzzle. When we
achieve our result (of course we came to one else you wouldn’t be
reading this), given the size of the Bitcoin Problem the only way to
judge if our answer is correct is to compare it with real-world events.
The paper being a carefully delivered time capsule, cannot be changed in
any way since it is widely distributed by technology enthusiasts. The
technology it describes relying heavily on the inability of third
parties to easily alter information once it has been widely distributed
in public, which because of this those enthusiasts expect any analysis
to be done on files that are (hash) identical to the Satoshi
publications. For our purposes, the file doesn’t have to be hash
identical. A simple PNG or JPEG or printout of each page will do for the
most part. Virtually all our evidence will be visible to the naked eye
allowing anyone with a copy in its original form to verify the methods
we are utilizing. We do have to do some rudimentary copy and pasting
into different software to be effective in documenting what we are doing
but that’s about it. To put any concerns to rest, all artifacts we have
analysed are on the gold standard of papers. Bitcoin.org/bitcoin.pdf

If you want to follow along with a paper, you source yourself then the
hash you need to use to check you are using the most UpToDate original
and genuine copy released by Satoshi Nakamoto himself is:

**SHA256**:
b1674191a88ec5cdd733e4240a81803105dc412d6c6708d53ab94fc248f4f553

You can check the file you locate using the command for both major OS
command line tools using:

Win CMD: -\> Certutil -hashfile "\[filepath\]" SHA256

MACTerminal: -\> shasum -a 256 ~/\[filepath\]

There is another version of the Bitcoin White Paper that is recognised
by many as published by Satoshi from 2008. We will mention in further
work and was provided by contributor CryptoTweek.

Over the course of writing this report it has been noted that several
publications and individuals refer to something known as “Entropy
similarity” or similar. This in principle is a steganographic method,
however, unless one can pinpoint the mathematical relationship that
steganographic analysis unveils as a correct interpretation of the marks
or symbols this is a “handwave” method of distracting the audience from
pinpointing why a relationship might exist.

The output of this report will be divisive no matter the output that we
come to. To address this concern, it is the authors intent and
documentation process to look upon each feature and character and
carefully consider what it might represent with hard-hearted
objectivity. This requires taking the most likely route for someone
sending secret messages at each junction assuming they are. We should
get a pretty good idea of whether the things we are seeing are random
with some basic statistical and local analysis quite early on, it is
from this point that those that disagree with the result will find
themselves looking for wholes to poke. I invite these people to dispute
everything they find with as much evidence from within the paper itself
as they can find. They then must link that to the events of the world
since its publication. The goal we have here is to detail each anomaly
or interesting feature seen then follow the most interesting ones which
have the highest likelihood of being intentionally manipulated by an
author looking at unspoiled document. Once these areas have been
exhausted move on to the next most interesting ones, or wherever the
information we may find is leading us. Like a discovery game we’re
playing with the original author and/or publisher or an exploratory
miner looking for fractures, in the earth, big and small which might
contain some mineral or resource.

# Fresh eyes

The Bitcoin Whitepaper is an incredibly clean document. Academic in
nature, concise and precise. The mark of a real expert in their field
who may have had some aggressive editing assistance. The language is a
mix of extremely simple words and industry specific jargon but
communicating complex ideas with a brevity that sticks to facts, and
ONLY facts.

Formatted meticulously in all aspects it has been read by millions of
technical people for supposedly endless hours each. Investigators going
so far as to travel the world in search for its mysterious author. The
author clearly suspecting their invention had struck a new kind of
digital mine and that this document would be read by millions of people
the world over quickly vanished. So, it might be likely that in crafting
this paper they took extreme care, more care than anyone might suspect
at the time.

In terms of formatting consistency is an issue that permeates the
document, the font size of the abstract is different to that of the body
of the document and that creates the possibility that each section of
the paper has its own unique font size. Immediately this could be
evidence of a highly sophisticated computer-generated steganography
algorithm, but this is beyond the scope of this paper. While noted, as
we proceed, we won’t let it influence us at this early stage in our
investigation.

There are no spelling errors and arguably no grammatical ones either at
first glance. Spellcheck does point to some unideal wordings, missing or
inconsistent hyphens and commas in non-ideal places, but nothing that
seems out of place. At least none that would suggest to anyone not
looking that there might be steganography hidden within it at first
glance. Suspicion is often the first step in looking at something with
fresh eyes, so following our gut we can suspect that someone’s ego
wouldn’t let them change the world in such a manner without being able
to prove they are the ones behind it. At least in a way that is
plausibly deniable if you don’t already know the people involved. Maybe
they wanted a fail-safe that they could show to allies they meet along
the way or maybe an enemy pinpointing one of the players and causing
them to live in the chaos. This is a battle for the worlds communication
and accounting system after all. Not a small change for society to go
through and if you were to take on such a monumental task, the people
around you might call you just a little crazy, which might in fact cause
you to go a little crazy at times.

This meticulous effort extends to the diagrams having embedded text and
vector-based graphics. Not just pixel-based images so often found in
regular commercial word processing software. This maybe because our
author wanted to restrict a researchers focus to the more rudimentary
text and visual based method of TFEs.

The metadata lists OpenOffice 2.4 which [was released in March
2008](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/OpenOffice.org) as the producer of
the PDF; however, we can’t know if a document was produced in another
program first and then loaded into Open Office for some additional
functionality and then exported to PDF or some other combination
thereof. An auditable trail of this editing process hasn’t been securely
recorded anywhere that we know of it may not even exist. Trusting this
record is also a problem that only the invention the document describes
could hope to fix, leaving us with a chicken and egg paradox. The
inventor could even be demonstrating the capabilities of his solution
with an example of a problem society faces which his invention could
fix. If only it was used to its full capabilities.

We must also note that this may not be the last piece of software to
modify the content of the document. Software like
[SNOW](https://darkside.com.au/snow/) (darkside.com.au) can be used on a
finished document to add additional information while retaining all
other properties such as metadata and human readable content. This
hidden information can probably only be extracted with a key and
knowledge of any modifications to the software used. It achieves this by
using the negative dead space at the ends of the lines to add whitespace
characters such as spaces/tabs and line breaks. The steganographed
document can then be loaded into the same software and a password
entered to extract a human readable message. While it is worth noting if
someone wants someone else without any contact or knowledge to
eventually find their name hidden directly within the document, we may
have to look for errors we can see visually to understand a direction to
follow and then pick up clues as to what to do next.

# Re-view Document

The document is 9 pages and 12 numbered sections long.

Each sections title (page number) and points of interest:

1.  Abstract (1)

    - Smaller font

2.  Introduction (1)

    - Nothing of apparent interest

3.  Transactions (2)

    - Diagram

    - Reference \[1\]

4.  Timestamp Server (2)

    - Diagram

    - Usenet {Capitalisation choice}

    - Reference \[2-5\]

5.  Proof-of-Work (3)

    - Diagram

    - Adam Back named

    - Reference \[6\]

    - Usenet {Consistent capitalisation}

    - SHA-256 and zero bits {Missing hyphen?}

    - Hyphenation usage in voting mechanics {Consistent}

6.  Network (3)

    - 6 item list with 7 lines and 2 paragraphs below

    - Duplications across lines with possible structure

    - Possible hints in paragraph below

    - Use of only semi colon in the document outside of calculations

7.  Incentive (4)

    - No visual anomalies

8.  Reclaiming Disk Space (4)

    - References \[7\],\[2\],\[5\]

    - Diagram

    - Possible words and letters aligning to indicate something

    - Calculations, numbers, date, RAM

9.  Simplified Payment Verification. (5)

    - Diagram

10. Combining and Splitting Value. (5)

    - Diagram

11. Privacy. (6)

    - Diagram

    - Use of “tape” in quotation marks

      1.  Only use of quotation marks outside of the references

12. Calculations. (6)

    - Use of numbers and equations

    - Reference \[8\]

13. Conclusion. (8)

    - No visible artifacts

14. References (9)

    - Names and dates in a list 1-8

Additional notes:

1.  Double spaces used after period

    1.  Signs of an older typist (or steg if inconsistent \[it’s not\]).

2.  Formatted as justified throughout

    1.  Possibly to hide inconsistent white spaces for steg-software
        usage.

3.  Usage of hyphens seems a little excessive but generally consistent.

4.  Section 5 has a 1-6 list

5.  There are 7 diagrams

    1.  None have boarders or captions

    2.  2 in the same diagram have a border and caption, segmenting them
        from each other.

6.  There is code and mathematical equations on pages 6-7.

7.  Few references throughout, yet when used, many are used at once.

# Error in-depth

There is one clear mistake in this document from a formatting
perspective that I didn’t point out in the list but to me in a document
such as this points to intentional manipulation. It is a mistake that is
arguably not a mistake without knowing the specifics of the references
and conventions. The section this error is contained in is written out
below. On page 4 under the 7<sup>th</sup> section Reclaiming Disk Space
is just 2 short paragraphs long:

7.  **Reclaiming Disk Space**

Once the latest transaction in a coin is buried under enough blocks, the
spent transactions before it can be discarded to save disk space. To
facilitate this without breaking the block's hash, transactions are
hashed in a Merkle Tree \[7\]\[2\]\[5\], with only the root included in
the block's hash. Old blocks can then be compacted by stubbing off
branches of the tree. The interior hashes do not need to be stored.

\[Diagram of pruned and unpruned Merkle tree\]

A block header with no transactions would be about 80 bytes. If we
suppose blocks are generated every 10 minutes, 80 bytes \* 6 \* 24 \*
365 = 4.2MB per year. With computer systems

typically selling with 2GB of RAM as of 2008, and Moore's Law predicting
current growth of

1.2GB per year, storage should not be a problem even if the block
headers must be kept in

memory.

Before discussing the main error lets address the numbers within the
calculations in the second paragraph. Given that Bitcoin uses a
10-minute block time and an 80-byte header it is unlikely these numbers
are used in a steganographic manner. These are the numbers we would
expect given the subject medium is Bitcoins defining document. Given
that these are the real numbers it is unlikely that an inventor would
choose these variables to communicate in a little side quest after the
invention. Similarly, the numbers indicating the amount of RAM a
computer has, or the year of authorship is not in fact controlled by the
author. They are simply world facts that given the content must be
stated and thus is unlikely meant to be used or manipulated to convey a
secret message.

The error we will investigate from here are the references listed in the
order \[7\],\[2\],\[5\]. This is unusual as the convention would be to
put them in numerical order regardless of relevance to the point being
referenced or chronology of them in the references. Typically, if one
needs multiple references for a single point they would be in numerical
order, the relevance to the point itself is irrelevant and subjective.

References should by convention be used when directly related to the
point being made. This point of the transactions being hashed into a
Merkle tree is not unique to this paragraph. The question we should ask
ourselves is why the author felt compelled to bundle all three together
in this point. Just because it is the first time a tree structure is
mentioned but that doesn’t mean every mention of tree structures in the
references should be referenced here. Some of these references have also
been used at other times inferring the author knows the reference
material well but mentioning them here a second time is unnecessary.

References \[2-5\] were used during the statement of public broadcasting
like “a newspaper or Usenet post”. The other time the Usenet
(Network/Database) is mentioned is in section 4 near Adam Backs name and
reference. S. Haber and W.S. Stornetta are the authors of 3 out of 4,
which is interesting to note. If we are looking for an author’s name or
initials the references are an obvious place to put them.

The references for the occasion in which we **do not** suspect
manipulation are below:

\[2\] H. Massias, X.S. Avila, and J.-J. Quisquater, "Design of a secure
timestamping service with minimal trust requirements," In *20th
Symposium on Information Theory in the Benelux*, May 1999.

\[3\] S. Haber, W.S. Stornetta, "How to time-stamp a digital document,"
In *Journal of Cryptology*, vol 3, no 2, pages 99-111, 1991.

\[4\] D. Bayer, S. Haber, W.S. Stornetta, "Improving the efficiency and
reliability of digital time-stamping," In *Sequences II: Methods in
Communication, Security and Computer Science*, pages 329-334, 1993.

\[5\] S. Haber, W.S. Stornetta, "Secure names for bit-strings," In
*Proceedings of the 4th ACM Conference on Computer and Communications
Security*, pages 28-35, April 1997.

The referencing system used by the paper seems to be in line with the
numeric references of the Vancouver formatting style following the
format:

Last Name Initial. Title article: Subtitle. Abbreviated journal
title. Year Month Day; volume (issue); page.

There are a few slight differences between our author and this
convention, our author does the following:

Initial. Last Name, "Title article: Subtitle,” Abbreviated journal
title, Month Year.

Our author has elected to swap “Last name **Initial**.” to “**Initial**
Last Name” and the “Year **Month**” to “**Month** Year” but also to put
the titles in quotation marks. All but one of these changes is common.
Dates are often swapped in error as locating the publication month of
articles in annual publications sometimes leads to conflicting dates.
Swapping the last name and initial however is not normal after someone
has gone to such lengths to conform to other standards. The order of an
author’s names is an international standard across all types of academic
fields papers and journals. These conventions state that references are
to be \[Last Name\] followed by \[Initial.\], so this is a peculiar
alteration in an otherwise well close to flawless document is notable
from a steganography perspective.

As anyone in academia would tell you, getting your references right and
correctly formatted is of utmost importance.

The sentence with the out of order references speaks of a Merkel tree.
As we would expect the R. C. Merkle’s paper which describes a Merkle
tree is in reference 7. Se7en is the most relevant so should come first,
some people would say. Traditionally convention dictates that references
should be used only when directly relevant or necessary, when multiple,
they should be in numerical or alphabetical or chronological order
depending on formatting choice. They key is to be consistent and conform
to standard. This list of references is none of these things and not
within the convention. The reference list is in order of references used
which does conform to traditional conventions. So, why on this occasion
do we have 3 in-line references out of order?

Darren Kellenschwiler or Deggen in the blockchain industry pointed out
that these citation formats are in fact IEEE standards, which follow the
format:

1.  J. Ive, A. Max, and F. Yvon, “Reassessing the proper place of man
    and machine in translation: A pre-translation scenario,” Mach.
    Transl., vol. 32, no. 4, pp. 279–308, Dec. 2018, doi:
    10.1007/s10590-018-9223-9.

This explains the quotation marks, order of the names and dates, but not
the fact that the references are out of numerical order. These
inconsistencies still go against this citation standard and as far [as I
have seen all citation
standards](https://www.scribbr.com/citing-sources/citation-styles/)
because it is such an unnatural thing to do and see. While citation
standards are informative to infer signals when errors or
inconsistencies are found. Due to how similar a lot of them are, many
people including me, can mistake one for another while thinking the
author just made a mistake due to our understanding of what we know.
Apologies if you think this most of this section was a waste of time,
but I decided to keep it in the report in the interest of transparency.

Another valued supporter @realFredHonohan pointed out that if this
document was compiled in LateX, Latex handles references normally in a
separate file (or in-line) using a specific 'Bibtex' syntax with an
example entry in the format:

@article{ref1,  
title={BOLT: A Bitcoin Transaction Latching Mechanism \\ Token
Protocol}, author={Honohan, Frederick Liam Simon},  
journal={ResearchGate Preprint},  
year={2025}, month={February},  
url={<https://www.researchgate.net/publication/388000992_BOLT_A_Bitcoin_Transaction_Latching_Mechanism_Token_Protocol>},  
publisher={Elas PTY} }

The numbers given to the references are explicitly tied to the order
they are specified in the Bibtex text, not the order they are referred
to in the Latex document.

Any research academic can confirm that correct referencing is pretty
much mandatory. Since they have full control over the orders of
reference in both files, the cleanest and most used method is to order
ascendingly in the default way (e.g: \[2\],\[5\],\[7\]). This is not
what Satoshi did, as such it is either an error or a deliberate signal.
To cite a reference in latex one uses the label attributed to it in the
bibtex entry, Satoshi must have done the following:

\cite{ ref7 } \cite{ ref2 } \cite{ ref5 }

To do it correctly would have been:

\cite{ ref2 } \cite{ ref5 } \cite{ ref7 }

But they did not, and the incorrect order they appear in the final
document is off by a single rotation: 7,2,5 =\> 2,5,7, another signal
perhaps?

The order of the references may also be an error when compiling the
document through writing and editing, this is something that would
likely be spotted and corrected by either correcting the order or
removing the additional unnecessary references. If only for the visual
and psychological satisfaction. This is the type of error that feels
unnatural in a document such as this. Quickly scanning the paragraph an
author looking for things to fix, would likely catch this and want to
fix it. Much like a tiny dent in an otherwise perfectly flat mirror (in
the eyes of its author) causing distortions that are outsized compared
to the size of the imperfection it delivers. The more information an
imperfection carries the larger its distortions in the rest of the text
but the bigger the text the more area for them to hide. You can only
move these distortions around and make them smaller. There are limits to
this without using machines, but in this analysis, we are limiting
ourselves due to assumptions of what the author is trying to communicate
and with whom. There is a strong chance that on this journey of
invention they thought “no-one will ever figure this out”, or “when
someone figures this out, I’m either screwed or saved.” So, at the time
may have seemed like a message in a bottle riding the waves of an ocean,
possibly only ever between him and God.

We won’t dwell on which standard is used since it is not the information
that will clearly define or tell us anything. There are many more things
to cover that are less ambiguous and much more informative. Instead, we
will look to apply the element we found to something else in the
document in some way. This may or may not be the references themselves.

# A Key Position

Before we consider the references themselves, let us consider the
potential uses of an artifact such as the references in a specific
numeric order.

It could be used as a key in several ways, not only by the numbers, but
also the position of where to find elements. In this scenario if we are
looking for the first element, we might find it in the second position,
if we are looking for the second element it would be in the third
position and third element we could find in the first position. The
elements could indicate a final order or be a simple mask with a gap at
the minimum, we can only speculate until we look further.

---

> \[7\]\[2\]\[5\]
>
> V \<- Starting position / Select character (Most simple/common idea)
>
> \[3\]\[1\]\[2\]

---

> \[7\]\[-\]\[5\]
>
> V \<- 2<sup>nd</sup> Position cycling (?)
>
> \[3\]\[1\]\[2\]

---

> \[1\]\[2\]\[3\] \<- Reorder final string (?)

---

It is unlikely that these three numbers are meant to be manipulated
mathematically given how they were found and where they point us.

The papers themselves, while they all mention a binary or Merkle tree
structure and are highly related to the paper in general they do not
seem directly related to what is being referenced. Reading them it seems
most of the core design for bitcoin was already established in theory
but putting it into practice with proof-of-work at the top of the tree
and a scripting language to control the digital signatures as leaves was
a novel idea. Especially the revelation of making it a public protocol
with a clear, although mysterious, starting point.

The question as to why these references are here together maybe found by
considering the order of, and the numbers themselves. It could be a in
reference to some initials or something else. The first letter being 7
the next one being 2 and the third letter being 5. Three numbers aren’t
a lot of space to convey information so we may also need to consider
that we haven’t got all our parts for this yet.

The if these numbers are doing something rudimentary like producing the
initials of the author, we simply need to find the area to apply the key
to.

The first letters of the 7<sup>th</sup>, 2<sup>nd</sup> and
5<sup>th</sup> chapters are:

7.  Reclaiming Disk Space

> 2\. Transactions \[R/D/S\].\[T\].\[N\]

5\. Network

Using our theory that the first element would be found in the second
position yields D, however, the other titles don’t have a position to
choose from. This inconsistency in application suggests we are not
looking in the right place, so this is unlikely to be what we are
looking for.

Most often with steganography there is little ambiguity in what actions
should be taken as the manipulator makes sort of transmission errors to
guide a would-be decoder. What is the use of embedding a secret message
in such a way, if you don’t want it to ever be found. It’s not a message
if it doesn’t make sense to someone else. There are no items that
indicate that there is more manipulation to occur to the titles of the
chapters.

Steganography requires a cover text that can be manipulated into a form
without being so malformed that it no longer serves its purpose. A
heading with no punctuation, spelling errors, formatting inconsistencies
or other interesting visual features is a place that is barren to a
genuine secret message. You can’t hide an elephant in a desert without
the dessert being relatively massive in comparison, or a whale in the
ocean for that matter. What is needed is a forest with lots of little
“nooks and crannies” to infer and highlight things with a series of
“mistakes” that an untrained eye would overlook.

Section 7 is where this artifact was found in the first place and
re-examining the same paragraph for something new to confirm which
letter to use in the string produced from the section titles doesn’t
seem to yield anything meaningful other than a potential comma and
apostrophe usage but here, they seem appropriate and without any other
context cannot understand them.

Moving to the references themselves, we can see that there is a lot of
punctuation white space, numbers and formatting choices within. All the
relevant references in the order they are provided to us by the key are:

\[7\] R.C. Merkle, "Protocols for public key cryptosystems," In *Proc.
1980 Symposium on Security and Privacy*, IEEE Computer Society, pages
122-133, April 1980.

\[2\] H. Massias, X.S. Avila, and J.-J. Quisquater, "Design of a secure
timestamping service with minimal trust requirements," In *20th
Symposium on Information Theory in the Benelux*, May 1999.

\[5\] S. Haber, W.S. Stornetta, "Secure names for bit-strings," In
*Proceedings of the 4th ACM Conference on Computer and Communications
Security*, pages 28-35, April 1997.

Reference 7 only has one author being R.C. Merkle, following the form of
the key to get our first letter we should find it in the second
position, normally this would have been the initial after a last name so
the second element would have been R if we were following conventions
rigorously. However, we find that the last name Merkle is in the third
position instead of the first. The form of this name has three elements.

First initial. Second initial. Last Name,

If the author was following standard conventions for the format, they
have chosen we would have had:

Last Name. First initial. Second initial,

Thus, swapping the names change our answer creating a point where two
“mistakes” intertwine. Considering our key is also three elements in
size the author would be inferring that we should take the second
initial, C.

\[C\].\[-\].\[-\]

Following this “initial” idea, the second letter that could be provided
by reference \[2\] could be any of the following:

1 2 3 \|

1 \[1\],\[2\],\[3\] H. M,\[ \] \| 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8

2 \[4\],\[5\],\[6\] X. S. A, \| H. M, X. S. A, J.-J. Q,

3 \[7\],\[8\],\[9\] J.-J. Q, \|

\(1\) \| (2)

There doesn’t seem to be anyway to choose between these numbers or
methods them unless we reconsider our application of the key. Which row
do we take and which character, or which number in the array do we take.
There doesn’t seem to be any indications on the page as that might help
solve our problem.

If we consider scenario 1, we have a matrix which we could apply our key
two, equally we have an array that we could choose from. There is no,
way for us to know in which configuration we should apply our suspected
key to or how many times so we must not have all the information needed.

Looking at [the (Design of a secure timestamping service with minimal
trust requirements)
paper](https://cdn.nakamotoinstitute.org/docs/secure-timestamping-service.pdf)
itself , it appears that the S stands for Serret as part of a last name
not an initial as the reference has lead us to believe. Other papers
that use this reference used [the full name instead of just an
initial](https://link.springer.com/referenceworkentry/10.1007/978-1-4419-5906-5_136)
here are
[a](https://www.academia.edu/27320568/The_digital_timestamping_problem)
[few](https://www.ijstm.com/images/short_pdf/1432055271_P_81-90.pdf)
[examples](https://www.belspo.be/belspo/organisation/publ/pub_ostc/NO/rNOb007_en.pdf)
all written before the Bitcoin Whitepaper. Since we got here following
errors and formatting, we should likely skip trying to figure out the
key and just take this immediate error as our choice. Thus S, for the
last name Serret, in the string X. S. Avila is likely the letter we
should chose, but some other confirmation would be nice.

\[C\].\[S\].\[-\]

This error in name is most likely an error implanted by the author to
informs us that we should only be taking the initials we are given, and
not the initial from last names since they have been removed from the
set intended by our author. This might indicate that we are not looking
for a name in this section, but a set of initials.

This time if we assume that only first name initials that we are given
be included as we have been “instructed” by the previous two examples.
Recalling that this rule was indicated to us because the usage of the
name was not established convention for this reference at the time
since. S is not an initial as we were led to believe when we first
looked.

It also likely also tells us that we should apply our key consistently
when we have three elements in any puzzle pieces that we might find.

The third letter could be:

S. Haber,

W. S. Stornetta.

We have a lot of candidates for S, most likely happenstance or a
stenographer confirming our previous choice. It is also in the second
position of the second name as the previous one was. However, this time
because we only have two names to choose from this time, we might infer
that we only take the first name initials we are given. These two names
together have three first name initials in order: \[S\], \[W\], \[S\].

Often, we must immediately apply what we learn from the previous step to
the next one, following a path little followed in a landscaper’s garden
created with malicious rigour but without being done so noticeably that
those that do not take such care over their process would ever even
think it was done intentionally.

This may to an individual not versed in the art of steganography, this
may seem like an indication that we should include last names instead of
what I have interpreted. As the key brought us here, we must still
consider the validity of our \[7\],\[2\],\[5\] key and the process it is
with in. The person manipulating the information for us to interpret
doesn’t know the order in which we are decoding things. Although they
may have something in mind due to the nature of steganography, they
can’t know what we try to analysis first. So, they don’t know which
direction we will be attacking the puzzle from unless they have given us
instructions, which we haven’t yet seen evidence of. If we had obeyed
the rule that the key cycles when used the result may be ambiguous. All
of this suggests that someone skilled in the art of steganography would
not make such a mechanic without directing the user to it. With these
assumptions we can feel confident that when we apply this key, we should
not cycle through the numerical numbers but only consider the middle
initial as part of our string.

Assuming that the stegonographer is guiding us to a result with the
consistency in this mechanic from the string S.W.S. yields a final
string three characters:

\[C\].\[S\].\[W\]

--- (sidebar) since you probably definitely now know where this is
going.

Found by one of our researchers and first supporters known around the
blockchain space as **mohrt**, by simply counting the number of letters
using the following digit of each reference, is using:

Reference line \[7\] take the letter in position 2  
Reference line \[2\] take the letter in position 5  
Reference line \[5\] take the letter in position 7

2 V

\[7\] R.C. Merkle

5 V

\[2\] H. Massias, X.S. Avila, and J.-J. Quisquater

7 v

\[5\] S. Haber, W.S. Stornetta

It is widely known that most experts overlook simple methods, while I
was looking for two reasons to choose a letter, mohrt was doing
something different but what we speculated might be the case. Once he
had applied the key once to collect the references, he then went through
the list and cycled through the key s number until he had to use the
first number again.

The problem I have with this method is that is generates three potential
results an no way to really chose between them. Those choices are:

7 V

\[7\] R.C. MerkLe

2 V

\[2\] H. Massias, X.S. Avila, and J.-J. Quisquater

5 v

\[5\] S. HabEr, W.S. Stornetta

And

5 V

\[7\] R.C. MeRkLe

7 V

\[2\] H. MassiAs, X.S. Avila, and J.-J. Quisquater

5 V

\[5\] S. HabEr, W.S. Stornetta

Resulting in either:

\[C\],\[S\],\[W\] or \[L\],\[M\],\[E\], or \[R\]\[A\]\[H\]

\[W\],\[C\],\[S\] or \[E\],\[L\],\[M\], or \[H\]\[R\]\[A\]

\[S\],\[W\],\[C\] or \[M\],\[E\],\[L\], or \[A\]\[H\]\[R\]

This is nine different possibilities, only one of which could be
correct. We need a reason to choose one or the other. That reason is
embedded somewhere in the mistakes or formatting choices, it maybe that
if we apply the key in several logical ways, we will find one string of
characters is reproduced more often but we still can’t rely on that as
proof. We need to look in other areas that will confirm or conflict with
this.

This contribution helped me explain the way I did things a lot more
clearly and while this all these things may be by chance, much of this
so far, looks to be designed.

Upon learning this I then checked a few other things. The S in W.S.
Stornetta, stands for Scott, and is also part of the last name, not the
middle name. This has not affected our result, and it is also the way
that he references himself so maybe Satoshi just trying to be consistent
with how he treats last names with two parts. Nevertheless, these are
formatting choices indicating we have the string we are looking for,
even if we aren’t certain which it is.

So far all of this may look like coincidence or an investigator looking
for an answer he wants. I’ll remind the reader that I didn’t chose the 3
numbers. They are an artifact that cannot be changed or influenced by
me, only what I chose to do with it. There are logical things to do with
it was we have explored, and illogical things to do with it, which we
have not. This has a high likely hood of an extremely skilled
steganography, trying to tell his readers that no matter how you would
logically apply the information in front of you, all paths lead to him.
Creating as many paths as possible to lead people of many different
skill sets to a single common result. Wanting the message to be found.
This is common in a lot of steganography applications, since you want
the person trying to find a message to find it. When steganography is
done correctly many things come together to create what would seem to be
just a number-of unimaginable coincidences when in fact it is a message
that has been designed, by an individual or a group.

Craig Steven Wright is a claimant to Satoshi. This very strongly
suggests that we don’t have to rearrange the letters. While this is
quite the remarkable coincidence 3 letters are roughly a 1 in 17,000
chance of occurring which while quite unlikely to be by chance isn’t
beyond the realm of possibility that this is just random chance.

R.A.H are the same initials used the email address of Robert Hettinga,
one of the most prolific posters of the CypherPunks mailing list.
Although, I would like to get into the details of certain members of
this group that collectively claim the identity of Satoshi, the
particulars of this on this group that proudly lives in the shadows is
largely outside the scope of this report. However, to give you an idea
of who RAH is, after news of Tim Mays death in 2018 it Robert Hettinga
seems to have lost interest in keeping up his postings and began signing
his [last
emails](https://marc.info/?l=cypherpunks&m=160639984721845&w=2) with an
[equals sign](https://marc.info/?l=cypherpunks&m=159950013604839&w=2)
possibly indicating that he was ill and also coming to the end of his
life as the equals points to nothing. He could also simply be planning
on retiring his activities. Another possibility is that he didn’t exist
and is someone else, or it is a piece of software responding to certain
people’s commands. That last point might be going too far for a lot of
you, but if you want to find out more about the people involved in the
Cypherpunks then visit [investigation7 on
patreon.com](https://www.patreon.com/c/investigation7) and support the
investigation for more insights and get your name as a supporter in the
book that is being written to shine a light on them.

Given the importance and sensitivity of the Bitcoin White Paper, I feel
it is unlikely that we will find the authors full name steganographic
embedded within it. Although may have not known just how important it
would be to some people, before launch everything must have only been
flashing thoughts of potential outcomes. Writing out their full name
would have likely been seen as a risk too great to take, especially
given that the paper was first published to a mailing list of
cryptographers.

The problem with using this as proof of anything is that it is plausibly
falsely affirmable. In other words, a leading question or directing the
witness. If we give someone the opportunity to affirm knowledge of
something without them having that knowledge before being asked, then we
give away the game. What could be done is ask them for their proof and
cross check their claimed method with our own, however this would be
premature. It is possible this is simply the checksum of the message we
need to decode. In steganography decoding you typically find the
checksum first, learn a few rules, then find the main puzzle that
results in a message. You then know if you decoded the full message
correctly because it matches what you already know.

When breaking cryptography while you are guessing random numbers until
you find one that matches, like what we are going to be doing next. You
can’t break a cyphertext without knowing something else about it such as
what encryption algorithm what used, to make the breaking easier it is
useful to know what kind of message you are expecting. During the second
world war it is now quite widely known that one of the weaknesses in the
enigma algorithm is how it treated duplicate letters. The Nazi party
starting messages with a weather report and ending messages with “HH”
allowed code breakers to guess the days encryption key much more rapidly
than they otherwise would have. It is this weakness in cryptography that
Steganography also treats with care as it is used to infer instructions
as part of the algorithm, typically to remove elements as we would do in
a cryptographic system.

The [Playfair Cypher](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Playfair_cipher)
specifically doesn’t allow duplicate letters as part key since it create
conflicts in within the key table that is created. Further, if your
message has duplicate letters and they are within the same digrams
\[blocks of 2 letters\] then we must substitute the second instance with
the padding character chosen, typically X or Q. When we notice
duplication of words, letters or other elements this may indicate that
there is something to remove or something to manipulate. It is difficult
to tell what it is exactly you need to do without knowing a lot of other
things about the puzzle you are facing. So, it may require looking in a
similar area or back to where you came from to have an indication of
what you should do next. This is going to be important to know moving
forward as our puzzle becomes more complex.

After quite a bit of debate with a few supporters and contributors
mainly motrh and Fredderic Honohan about why we would use ROT1 (rotate
one) and be expected to get the correct characters without a signal as
to why this is the one we should be expected to do. While speaking with
Fredderic it occurred to us that the references are the error signal
itself ROT1. The numbers \[7\]\[2\]\[5\] is ROT1 of \[2\]\[5\]\[7\] thus
when using the key we should fix the error and use it as standard. Using
the key in that form on the reference is the most correct steganographic
process to follow. Incredibly simple if you know.

I’m not satisfied that these initials are expected to be the proof, and
I don’t expect the read is either, I also don’t expect our mysterious
author does either. So far there is no way of knowing if the author
intended for this to be used this way, without asking them directly and
if they answer would potentially bring an end the puzzle before we have
exhausted all possible avenues. If this is not the full message, then we
have a few candidates that might be what is known as a checksum and will
verify that we have the correct full message.

There are several other elements in the paper that we should
investigate, given that we have just decoded what might be an
individual’s initials we may find that the full decode includes the same
initials again, an initial and a name, or a full first middle and last
name.

# Checksum of dis’

With all this considered it might be quite likely that this is a check
sum of some sort, meaning that we are not done with our decode. It is
common in steganography decodes to start with the checksum and then move
to the main puzzle, this is because in steganography it is easier to
move forward if you know roughly what you are looking for. The document
is quite large to be used as a cover, giving ample opportunity to hide
messages throughout. A skilled steganographer would likely want to
incorporate many pages and chapters in a steganography proof. Ideally
all of them in at least some small way, if possible, but remaining
modular such that if the paper was split up each section together may
still be used as proof, although in this scenario is unlikely as each
section is quite small.

While we could investigate our summary more let us first contemplate
some of our learnings so far, the key \[7\],\[2\],\[5\] found in section
7, the initials and dates swapped around and the addition of quotation
marks around the title.

Quickly scanning our summary, we can see that we noted that chapter 10.
Privacy has the word “tape” within quotation marks. The titles of the
references are also in quotation marks, this could indicate that we
perform some kind of manipulation to the title based on the word “tape”.

The references quotation marks are:

"b-money,"

"Design of a secure timestamping service with minimal trust
requirements,"

"How to time-stamp a digital document,"

"Improving the efficiency and reliability of digital time-stamping,"

"Secure names for bit-strings,"

"Hashcash - a denial of service counter-measure,"

"Protocols for public key cryptosystems,"

"An introduction to probability theory and its applications,"

There are no significant formatting choices or errors within these
titles, the choice of comma before the end of quotation marks is
standard for in Vancouver reference list formatting. The choice of
Capitalisation for the first letter of the title except for b-money
where it is a choice of the b-money author doesn’t seem to be of
significance; however, we do know from the history of the document that
the b-money reference was altered after the document was finished to
correct a date and list its webpage. Early versions of the document
while could be located isn’t necessary for our purposes since the author
made the revisions and republished the document themselves. Unlike most
other documents though, millions of hash identical copies have been
distributed all over the world and even on the blockchain itself. It is
one of these copies that we are using as the recognised original file.

The information surrounding our data point of “tape” is all about
privacy pointing out that the times and sizes of trades is information
that is made public but who the parties are isn’t revealed. Topical of
course. If we remember the dates of the references are also in the
incorrect order as we mentioned in our comparison of the Vancouver
reference list format convention. We may be able to use the word tape as
a key to extract some more information the date area as we did with the
initials and potentially as indicated by any formatting error. The dates
of each reference are:

\[1\] 1998.

\[2\] May 1999. \[May is 5th month\]

\[3\] 1991.

\[4\] 1993.

\[5\] April 1997. \[April is 4th month\]

\[6\] 2002.

\[7\] April 1980. \[April is 4th month\]

\[8\] 1957

Remarkably the references we found out of order, are also the ones with
months included in the dates. This would suggest much more strongly that
the key we extracted is correct and applied to the correct area.
However, this could still be by chance. Other papers that cite the
material in this list of references have months in their entries, so why
chose or accidently use them in only these three papers. If not for an
expert steganographer using elements sparingly, yet appropriately to
elegantly point any would-be investigator in the right direction in a
few different ways. The choice of putting the quotation marks around
such a word would suggest that we are to read the dates in some order as
a key of some kind. The author safe in the knowledge that if we can’t
figure this puzzle out, we still can’t get it from scanning the document
for something related to this which would bring us to the reference
error we caught.

If we place the months in alphabetical order, we have a tie between 5
and 7 as they were both published in April. Ordering these two by date
we start with 7.

\[7, A, 80\] = \> R.C. Merkle, April 1980

\[5, A, 97\] = \> S. Haber, W.S. Stornetta, April 1997

\[2, M, 99\] = \> H. Massias, X.S. Avila, and J.-J. Quisquater, May 1999

Doing this ends up giving us a chronological order. However, this seems
to give us double confirmation of what we have assumed is the wrong
order. This again doesn’t match the order of the key we found.

If we didn’t find the key the steganographer was likely betting that we
might be able to figure out that M might stand for middle. Giving the
same order they are used on page 5. If the order had been
\[7\],\[5\],\[2\], being chronological ordering it would have also been
unusual and worth investigating. That is because using references should
be in chronological order when using the Harvard standard, but this
document as discussed is using the Vancouver Standard. In other places
such as in section 3 where 4 references are used \[2-5\]. These
references are also not in chronological order but in the order, but the
order they appear in the reference list which is also not in
chronological order but as per convention. Taking a quick look at the
dates of these \[2-5\] refferences:

\[2\] May 1999.

\[3\] 1991.

\[4\] 1993.

\[5\] April 1997.

This inconsistency is a glaring formatting error pointing towards to
intentional manipulation to point at a secret author hidden within the
initials of other authors.

The years and months the papers were published are unlikely to provide
any additional information as to the identity of the author as they have
not been chosen by the author. This leaves little opportunity for the
author to mutate the numbers into a secret message leaving us with the
conclusion that it is unlikely we should be looking for additional
decoding information from them.

We found this by examining the word tape within double-quotation marks.
The choice of quotation marks has come under scrutiny by members of the
public. There aren’t many documents in the world that have come under so
much scrutiny and found so few errors that they [have blog posts about
the formatting choice of quotation
marks](https://dovydas.com/blog/the-strangest-thing-about-the-bitcoin-white-paper).
Indeed, it appears these tiny formatting errors in convention that
Satoshi appears to have made are signals to highly skilled individuals
on the look out to verify the papers author. This individual
unfortunately missed every single one of the errors we have picked up on
so far but pointed out something we haven’t. This is largely because the
author of this report is not familiar with LaTeX. I can only assume that
if the author of this post had figured out that it is a steganographic
signal he would have either kept this little bit of information to
himself or published his findings.

# ‘5. List of 6 steps

So far, we have found indications of steganographic manipulation in
sections 7 and 10, our key is 7,2,5 someone versed in even the basics of
computing which this paper is aimed at knows that 10 is binary for 2. So
logically we should find some more steganographic manipulation in some
section 5 completing the key we initially found.

Section 5: Network contains the documents most interesting feature from
a steganalysis point of view, an alphanumeric list. The list 6 items
long and the content around it don’t at first glance seem to be
connected our list of numbers from the key. There are no noticeable
“blemishes” or errors that we can see. A 6-item list is most likely to
contain 6-character positions for 1 or 26 letters and possibly
punctuation. While likely not enough to write out a full first, middle
initial and last name including spaces, it may be enough to give us an
initial and a last name or something similar.

Further, 5 being the last number in our key we might assume that this is
the last decode section and thus the main puzzle which we believe we may
have found the checksum for.

The list itself has some very interesting features, its usage of
duplicate phrases while common in lists creates a visually interesting
pattern. The most prominent duplication is at the start of some of the
line “Each node” and “Nodes” separated by “When a node”. From a visual
standpoint it is likely an important thing to note the lines get
gradually longer for each point. While this looks satisfying it could
also be being used to signal something related to our puzzle.

---

The steps to run the network are as follows:

1\) New transactions are broadcast to all nodes.

2\) Each node collects new transactions into a block.

3\) Each node works on finding a difficult proof-of-work for its block.

4\) When a node finds a proof-of-work, it broadcasts the block to all
nodes.

5\) Nodes accept the block only if all transactions in it are valid and
not already spent.

6\) Nodes express their acceptance of the block by working on creating
the next block in the

chain, using the hash of the accepted block as the previous hash.

Nodes always consider the longest chain to be the correct one and will
keep working on

extending it. If two nodes broadcast different versions of the next
block simultaneously, some nodes may receive one or the other first. In
that case, they work on the first one they received, but save the other
branch in case it becomes longer. The tie will be broken when the next
proofof-work is found and one branch becomes longer; the nodes that were
working on the other branch will then switch to the longer one.

---

The paragraph below the list mentions that a tie will be broken when one
chain becomes longer. This could mean that we need to pay attention to
the length of the lines throughout our decoding process to unpack the
manipulation that has been done.

There are other interesting visual points on this page outside of
section 5, including many hyphens and inconsistent spacings. For
example, the sentence, “Proof-of-work is essentially one-CPU-one-vote.”
seems to be surrounded by unnaturally large whitespaces. This sentence
is one of only two in the entire paper to be unbroken by a line break.
Although we are unlikely to be able to infer any instructions from this
feature is it interesting to note as it potentially has uses to
manipulate the positioning of other elements on the page.

<img src="media/image1.png" style="width:5.48819in;height:8.4875in"
alt="A document with text and a note AI-generated content may be incorrect." />To
ensure the integrity of the elements positioning is preserved in this
report below is a screen shot of the page:

-- (Slight side bar)

Initially I didn’t think much of something when doing this report but
feel it is worth mentioning now while discussing the layout of the page.
When copy pasting this section which, I’ve done it many times, I have
noted a strange behaviour. Whitespaces are retained differently
depending on what software you are copying from and pasting too. For
this paragraph if we copy and paste this paragraph into notepad, on
windows, using any browser but Microsoft Edge we get the below result:

---

5\.

Network

The steps to run the network are as follows:

1\) New transactions are broadcast to all nodes.

2\) Each node collects new transactions into a block.

3\) Each node works on finding a difficult proof-of-work for its block.

4\) When a node finds a proof-of-work, it broadcasts the block to all
nodes.

5\) Nodes accept the block only if all transactions in it are valid and
not already spent.

6\) Nodes express their acceptance of the block by working on creating
the next block in the

chain, using the hash of the accepted block as the previous hash.

Nodes always consider the longest chain to be the correct one and will
keep working on

extending it. If two nodes broadcast different versions of the next
block simultaneously, some

nodes may receive one or the other first. In that case, they work on the
first one they received,

but save the other branch in case it becomes longer. The tie will be
broken when the next proofof-work is found and one branch becomes
longer; the nodes that were working on the other

branch will then switch to the longer one.

---

With Microsoft Edge we get the below:

---

5\.

Network

The steps to run the network are as follows:

1\) New transactions are broadcast to all nodes.

2\) Each node collects new transactions into a block.

3\) Each node works on finding a difficult proof-of-work for its block.

4\) When a node finds a proof-of-work, it broadcasts the block to all
nodes.

5\) Nodes accept the block only if all transactions in it are valid and
not already spent.

6\) Nodes express their acceptance of the block by working on creating
the next block in the

chain, using the hash of the accepted block as the previous hash.

Nodes always consider the longest chain to be the correct one and will
keep working on

extending it. If two nodes broadcast different versions of the next
block simultaneously, some

nodes may receive one or the other first. In that case, they work on the
first one they received,

but save the other branch in case it becomes longer. The tie will be
broken when the next proof

of-work is found and one branch becomes longer; the nodes that were
working on the other

branch will then switch to the longer one.

---

There are two main differences, the first is that Edge interprets the
first hyphen at the end of a line for “proof-of-work” as line break, but
chrome and others do not, and **neither have the hyphen**. What is more,
line item 3 is missing a space at the start causing it to be the only
line not to have an indent. This is very peculiar behaviour. It seems to
be caused by the line breaking after a whitespace character instead of
before it. This misplaces in line break maybe a result of manipulation
to signal something.

This line 3 indent was first noticed by the author some time ago. I
publicly pointed to this as a potential [sign of
steganography](https://x.com/roman_de_fauvel/status/1755977270785700183/photo/1)
on February 9<sup>th</sup>, 2024, after the Dr. Craig Wright on the
stand in a U.K. High court claimed that he had employed steganography as
a method while authoring the Bitcoin White Paper. Although at the time
and even throughout writing most of this report the purpose of it was
not yet known as they had not taken the time to sit down and figure out
what should have been an obvious method of claiming authorship.

From here we will assume that the length of a line is dictated by the
number of characters it contains without whitespaces, although we will
note this packet loss as we continue our decode. To help us read the
paragraph properly we will clean them of data we are no-longer
considering, yet still there, up until we no longer need them:

**5. Network**

The steps to run the network are as follows:

1\) New transactions are broadcast to all nodes.

2\) Each node collects new transactions into a block.

3\) Each node works on finding a difficult proof-of-work for its block.

4\) When a node finds a proof-of-work, it broadcasts the block to all
nodes.

5\) Nodes accept the block only if all transactions in it are valid and
not already spent.

6\) Nodes express their acceptance of the block by working on creating
the next block in the

chain, using the hash of the accepted block as the previous hash.

Nodes always consider the longest chain to be the correct one and will
keep working on extending it. If two nodes broadcast different versions
of the next block simultaneously, some nodes may receive one or the
other first. In that case, they work on the first one they received, but
save the other branch in case it becomes longer. The tie will be broken
when the next proof-of-work is found and one branch becomes longer; the
nodes that were working on the other branch will then switch to the
longer one.

*page number -\>* 3

--- page break ---

New transaction broadcasts do not necessarily need to reach all nodes.
As long as they reach many nodes, they will get into a block before
long. Block broadcasts are also tolerant of dropped messages. If a node
does not receive a block, it will request it when it receives the next
block and realizes it missed one.

<img src="media/image6.png" style="width:2.6in;height:1.1375in"
alt="A text on a piece of paper AI-generated content may be incorrect." />

Two mistakes have been picked up by Microsoft words spell check function
while cleaning the data, so it is readable but with the same visible
characters and the assumed reading. The comma after “received” in the
paragraph below the list shouldn’t be there, and after the word “found”
in the line below it suggests that there should be one. If the author
had access to a spell check, we could speculate that they would have
been informed of this grammatical error and corrected it. Again, this is
a discussion of convention, but these kinds of conventions are what we
have been considering as signals and thus that might be relevant.

<img src="media/image7.png" style="width:1.51042in;height:1.10417in"
alt="A close up of black text AI-generated content may be incorrect." />On
this line the commas position is right at the end of the line suggesting
that it could simply be misplaced. Natural errors are much more common
at the end of a line or page since they are not as visually obstructive
in comparison to the emptiness of the negative space. Worth bearing in
mind though as the missing comma after the word found is more in the
middle of the line. If I correct these mistakes the spell check sees no
errors at other than what could be overlooked as a software copy and
pasting quirk in a missing hyphen.

Other features of this area include the documents only semi-colon
(outside of the code 11. Calculations) and a duplicated phrase “becomes
longer” on the same lines as the misplaced comma.

Highlighting duplicated words shows us some interesting patterns.

The steps to run the network are as follows:

1\) New transactions are broadcast to all nodes.

2\) Each node collects new transactions into a block.

3\) Each node works on finding a difficult **proof-of-work** for its
block.

4\) When a node finds a **proof-of-work**, it broadcasts the block to
all nodes.

5\) Nodes accept the block only if all transactions in it are valid and
not already spent.

6\) Nodes express their acceptance of the block by working on creating
the next block in the chain, using the hash of the accepted block as the
previous hash.

Due to the nature of a what this list is detailing we would expect
certain things to be repeated but the exact repetition and position
seems deliberate and possibly indicating something. NEEWNN being the
first letter of each line also has an interesting pattern to it, four
unique letters like tape. Without knowing how it might be related to
what we have already found we can’t do anything with this potential
information. It may suggest that we separate the list into parts, the
unique W being the only nonduplicate lines up with our indentation when
we copy and paste the list. We could speculate that it is in 2 parts,
part 1 steps 1-3 and part 2 steps 4-6 but until we have more information
about what we might be doing we can’t know how this is affecting things.

The second paragraph is 4 sentences long which have been separated and
compared below:

---

Nodes always consider the longest chain to be the correct one and will
keep working on extending it.

If two nodes broadcast different versions of the next block
simultaneously, some nodes may receive one or the other first.

In that case, they work on the first one they received, but save the
other branch in case it becomes longer.

The tie will be broken when the next proofof-work is found and one
branch becomes longer; the nodes that were working on the other branch
will then switch to the longer one.

---

The first line has no punctuation but next 2 have a comma and the last
has a semi colon. Since we are looking at punctuation to separate and
compare lengths it is worth noting that this semi colon choice could
also be important, although we aren’t sure why yet.

Doing the same again for the second paragraph on the next page:

---

New transaction broadcasts do not necessarily need to reach all nodes.

As long as they reach many nodes, they will get into a block before
long.

Block broadcasts are also tolerant of dropped messages.

If a node does not receive a block, it will request it when it receives
the next block and realizes it missed one.

---

This doesn’t seem to produce anything of value. We could continue to do
this, or we could reconsider what we are doing and looking for and what
we have seen so far.

Performing these copy paste operations is frustrating, when copy and
pasting the last sentence of the paragraph immediately under the list in
words “proof-of-work” the first hyphen is always dropped. It doesn’t
matter which software we use it always pastes as “proof of-work” or
“proofof-work” with a line break. It is almost as if this hyphen isn’t a
hyphen character in the paper, but a line placed there by the author and
pieced together to indicate something.

# Hyphenation Haven

There are many hyphens on this page and interestingly in one area in
particular no hyphens where maybe there should be.

**4. Proof-of-Work**

To implement a distributed timestamp server on a peer-to-peer basis, we
will need to use a proofof-work system similar to Adam Back's Hashcash
\[6\], rather than newspaper or Usenet posts. The proof of-work involves
scanning for a value that when hashed, such as with SHA-256, the hash
begins with a number of zero bits. The average work required is
exponential in the number of zero bits required and can be verified by
executing a single hash.

<img src="media/image8.png" style="width:2.62537in;height:0.79178in"
alt="A close-up of a text AI-generated content may be incorrect." />For
our timestamp network, we implement the proof-of-work by incrementing a
nonce in the block until a value is found that gives the block's hash
the required zero bits. Once the CPU effort has been expended to make it
satisfy the proof-of-work, the block cannot be changed without redoing
the work. As later blocks are chained after it, the work to change the
block would include redoing all the blocks after it.

In section 4 Proof-of-Work word processing software conveniently
indicates there should be a hyphen within “a number of zero bits”.

As we mentioned towards the start the document is covered in hyphens
between various conjunctions below is a lite of all of them:

proof-of-work \<- 18 times

**proof of-work \<- 2 times** \[no-hyphen/signal?\]

peer-to-peer \<- 6 times

double-spending \<- 4 times

**double spending \<- 1 time** \[no-hyphen/signal?\]

double-spent \<- 1 time

non-reversable \<- 2 times

**non reversable \<- 1 time** \[no-hyphen/signal?\]

**a number of zero bits \<- 1 time** \[no-hyphen/signal?\]

SHA-256 \<- 1 time

fan-out \<- 1 time

multi-input \<- 1 time

one-CPU-one-vote \<- 1 time

one-IP-address-one-vote \<- 1 time

mint based \<- 1 time \[spell check/signal/style?\]

Starting with the last on the list, mint based. Today and in this paper,
this would seem to be an obvious place to put a hyphen if we are looking
at hyphens. We haven’t found

Two are clearly errors that could be interpreted as a signal due to
their proximity to our steg decode and references. Also due to the form
of how the error is presenting in that: there is in fact a line on the
page but not in a form that allows it to be highlighted using the cursor
thus can’t be copy and pasted. Both instances in the proof of work case
are on the same page in the first couple of line at the top of the page
and bottom of the page. These could have been used are targets for a
steganographer to try and line up as they are adjusting the spacing of
the document.

Noted by collegue, contributer and friend Jerry David Chan, on a
macintosh using safari and on iphone using chrome he is able to
highlight the hyphen. Further when he copy and pastes it into notepad he
is able to notice an additional space but no line break, this looks to
be a difference in software specifics and would be expected if there was
any intnetional manipulation as there is no standard way to deal with an
author intentionally inserting what you might think of as error into
their own document.

The “double spending” instance on page 2 section 2 doesn’t have a hyphen
at all, every other time in the paper the author uses “double-spending”,
the occurrences in order are.

<img src="media/image19.png" style="width:1.82917in;height:0.54792in"
alt="A yellow line with black text AI-generated content may be incorrect." />Abstract:
double-spending

Abstract: double-spending

Section 1: double-spending

**Section 2: double spending** \<- missing hyphen

Section 12:double-spending

If we recall the key, we found used the number 2 as a reference which is
where and why we speculated intentional steganographic manipulation in
the first place. This missing hyphen in the word “double-spending” is
dubious as it is inconsistent. It could be seen as an instruction that
we are not looking in the right place, but we are looking for the right
kind of thing. Instead, the secret writer is guiding us and wants us to
make the logical leap of faith that in a paper about computer networks
the number 2 might also be represented in binary form as the number 10
which is where we found “tape” leading us to the CheckSum.

Now that we know the hypothesis that hyphens are being used as an
element to signal instructions just got a little firmer, we can examine
the missing hyphens more closely.

The hyphen missing in “non reversable” is also at the end of a line and
maybe due to the way the software is working but we can’t know if it is
intentional or not without further examination of why it might have been
used.

In the sentence itself it reads:

The cost of mediation increases transaction costs, limiting the minimum
practical transaction size and cutting off the possibility for small
casual transactions, and there is a broader cost in the loss of ability
to make non-reversible payments for non reversible services. With the
possibility of reversal, the need for trust spreads. ^*-(missing)*

If the author is using hyphens to signal something this could be the
author signalling very subtly that they are aware that in releasing this
paper and software there is no going back, and nothing can stop the
world changing from that point forward or simply an error that the
author didn’t intend due to it being at the end of a line. We will bear
it in mind as we continue our analysis.

Strangely though both instances for “proofof-work” occur on the same
page, top and bottom. Almost as though they might be markers for
formatting and may be related to one another. No other page has a
characteristic like this. They could be signalling something much more
specific, a possible sign of steganographic injection via space
formatting is a common method after all. To understand that we need to
look more closely at the 2nd instance at the top of the page that we
haven’t closely examined yet. As such this marks a fresh area of
interest. Signals normally must be near one another or in logically
defined places depending on the layout of the puzzle.

The instance at the top of page 4 is in the same sentence as Reference
\[6\] and Adam Backs name. The next time hyphens should be used, but are
not, is towards the end of the paragraph with short phrase “number of
zero bits.” should have at least one hyphen in it between ‘number’ and
‘of’ or changed to “several zero bits”. To correct this one would
normally insert them and move on. However, if used as a signal as a task
for us to complete like we are doing with the rest of our manipulations
then the instruction a secret message like this is what you would expect
at first glance conceptually. Let us examine it further:

When reading and making edits to a document we typically work in a
process of reading, considering, demarking, addition, moving on. While
the editing process is all these things, an error of this type is a
process interruption, leading us to believe that this might be an edit
that was unfinished due to an author getting distracted with something
else. However, if we are to assume that there is a secret message to be
decoded then, this can be viewed as an instruction to finish a process
that is still open.

Markup code for striking out a character is typically in the form of:

Text \~~text to remove\~~ text -\> Text ~~text to remove~~ text -\> Text
text

If we are using a steganographic method to hide this information using a
double Tilde (~) or even one might be too obvious for even a casual
observer that this is clearly a typo. So, we hide this face by making
the conceptual element smaller as a hyphen. In the end literally
straightening out the unevenness in the document.

As a process when reading the English language it is expected that an
editor would conventionally move with the direction of reading, thus
process output of each step in the process would look like the steps
below and an interrupted process would get stuck at step 2.

Text that and editor likes (text the editor doesn’t like) continuation
of the text the editor likes.

Text that and editor likes \[-\] (text that is marked as removed) \[ \]
continuation of the text the editor likes.

Text that and editor likes \[-\] (~~text that is marked as removed~~)
\[-\] \things that should be “inserted instead” / continuation of the
text the editor likes.

Text that and editor likes \[\\ things that should be “inserted instead”
\[/\] continuation of the text the editor likes.

writer the author is providing instructions for us to finished would
traditionally be infer striking off (strike-through) the section. If we
do so Adam Back’s name and his reference is crossed out.

To implement a distributed timestamp server on a peer-to-peer basis, we
will need to use a ~~proofof-work system similar to Adam Back's Hashcash
\[6\], rather than newspaper or Usenet posts. The proof-of-work involves
scanning for a value that when hashed, such as with SHA-256, the hash
begins with a number of zero~~ bits. The average work required is
exponential in the number of zero bits required and can be verified by
executing a single hash.

We can easily infer from this that the author is trying to subtly
communicate that they are not in fact Adam Back. In steganography terms
this is a very big slap in the face, the person encoding the message
communicating that they wish to disassociate themselves from this
individual and his work. Something personal.

If you ever construct your own puzzle, it may feel like the cover and
content start to become merged in such a way that it is extremely
difficult to decern what is and is not part of the set of steganographic
instructions until you learn all the rules.

There may be additional information as to which specific words are to be
struck through. Let’s quickly investigate this possibility.

The first missing hyphen when copying the text is the first on in
proof-of-work, then we have 4 before the position we should have one in
the phrase “number of zero bits.”

\<-- Start ---------------------- End --\>

V 1 2 3 4 V

proofof-work, proof-of-work, SHA-256, number of zero bits.

Where there are 3 potential positions we could choose from and one
choice requiring 2. Yet, the choice of either would mean that we might
not notice a connection between a missing one at the start of the
paragraph and the one at the end. 4 hyphens may infer that we skip the
first 4 words and then select the next three words to cross out
producing a much more precise version:

To implement a distributed timestamp server on a peer-to-peer basis, we
will need to use a proofof-work system similar to ~~Adam Back's Hashcash
\[6\]~~, rather than newspaper or Usenet posts. The proof-of-work
involves scanning for a value that when hashed, such as with SHA-256,
the hash begins with a number of zero bits. The average work required is
exponential in the number of zero bits required and can be verified by
executing a single hash.

I elected to remove \[6\] as a 4<sup>th</sup> element as well because
the removal of him and his invention from the paper would also negate
the reference. As the amount that is removed is a little ambiguous from
my standpoint. I feel Steganographer, would want the sentence to retain
logic after the point is removed, leaving the other option that
everything is removed which doesn’t really improve the problem that much
due to the resulting “a proof bits”. Sometimes something is good enough
to be considered complete.

To implement a distributed timestamp server on a peer-to-peer basis, we
will need to use a proof~~of-work system similar to Adam Back's Hashcash
\[6\], rather than newspaper or Usenet posts. The proof-of-work involves
scanning for a value that when hashed, such as with SHA-256, the hash
begins with a number of zero~~ bits. The average work required is
exponential in the number of zero bits required and can be verified by
executing a single hash.

The skill required to so subtle align the hyphens with the line breaks
such that no one would notice while seems inconceivable on its surface
isn’t completely out of the realm of possibility. Doing so would only
require the following steps not matter how sophisticated the software:

- Write sentance with hypens in a normal way.

- Restructure elements so they are all roughly in the right place

- Adjust settings that affect the position of the hyphens such as:

  - Font size, spacing

  - Word spacing

  - Line spacing

  - Paragraph spacing

  - Diagram size/padding

  - List padding

  - Other things

    - This should be enough

- Get all elements are on the same page

- Adjust settings until the hyphens are at the end of the line

- Convert the hypen to vector or otherwise replace it with one

- Save document.

# Adam and Satoshi

Given that Adam back received the first email from Satoshi in 2008 and
it was later made public in a rather notable court case concerning the
identity of Satoshi Nakamoto with Craig S Wright being on the other
side. It appears Adam Back and Satoshi may have had some kind of
personal disagreement from before the Satoshi Identity was created. Adam
Backs Hashcash paper, reference \[6\], is noted as non-original work, in
the introduction it states:

At the time of publication of \[1\] the author was not aware of the
prior work by Dwork and Naor in \[2\] who proposed a CPU pricing
function for the application of combatting junk email.

Satoshi being a so meticulous in his effort to produce such a paper and
technology and then embedding that paper with secret messages using the
ancient art of steganography would probably have preferred to cite
original work where possible. The list of references included go back as
far as 1957, Dwork and Naors work on pricing via processing was
published in 1992, just 5 years before Adams work. This truly original
paper is going to be something that Satoshi looked at and considered as
a reference. Instead, he decided to give Adam Back the option of
correctly attributing the invention of proof-of-work.

In his first publicly recorded email Satoshi writes to Adam:

---

From: "satoshi@anonymousspeech.com" \<satoshi@anonymousspeech.com\>

Sent: Wed 8/20/2008 6:30:39 PM (UTC+01:00)

To: adam@cypherspace.org

Subject: Citation of your Hashcash paper

---

I'm getting ready to release a paper that references your Hashcash paper
and I wanted to make sure I have the citation right. Here's what I have:

\[5\] A. Back, "Hashcash a denial of service counter-measure,"
http://www.hashcash.org/papers/hashcash.pdf, 2002.

I think you would find it interesting, since it finds a new use for
hash-based proof-of-work as a way to make e-cash work. You can download
a pre-release draft at http://www.upload.ae/file/6157/ecash- pdf.html
Feel free to forward it to anyone else you think would be interested.
I'm also nearly finished with a C++ implementation to release as open
source.

Title: Electronic Cash Without a Trusted Third PartyAbstract: A purely
peer-to-peer version of electronic cash would allow online payments to
be sent directly from one party to another without the burdens of going
through a financial institution. Digital signatures offer part of the
solution, but the main benefits are lost if a trusted party is still
required to prevent double-spending. We propose a solution to the
double- spending problem using a peer-to-peer network. The network
timestamps transactions by hashing them into an ongoing chain of
hash-based proof-of-work, forming a record that cannot be changed
without redoing the proof-of-work. The longest chain not only serves as
proof of the sequence of events witnessed, but proof that it came from
the largest pool of CPU power. As long as honest nodes control the most
CPU power on the network, they can generate the longest chain and
outpace any attackers. The network itself requires minimal structure.
Messages are broadcasted on a best effort basis, and nodes can leave and
rejoin the network at will, accepting the longest proof-of-work chain as
proof of what happened while they were gone.

To which Adam [Adam
responded](https://bitcoinmagazine.com/technical/bitcoin-adam-backs-complete-emails-satoshi-nakamoto):  
  
“Yes citation looks fine. I’ll take a look at your paper. You may be
aware of the “B-money” proposal, I guess google can find it for you, by
Wei Dai which sounds to be somewhat related to your paper. (The b-money
idea is just described concisely on his web page, he didn’t write up a
paper).”

While short this exchange says a lot more than you might think. For
example,
<img src="media/image20.png" style="width:3.16111in;height:2.88611in"
alt="A screenshot of a computer AI-generated content may be incorrect." />the
link was hosted by upload.ae. which doesn’t appear to have a web archive
link for this document although people attempted to record something in
2020 when these emails were first made public. This is an interesting
choice to deliver the file to Adam, not only because it is niche but
because a PDF can be attached to an email no problem. Uploading it to a
server of a particular service may also tell us something about the
relationship that Satoshi has with Adam Back. The hosting provider seems
to have suspended the account after the website was sold some time in
2020 according to their web archive captures. When the site first
launched, they had a flurry of web archive links created around 2008,
they appear to have had their first crawl at the start of 2007 and
registered the domain at an unknown time as the whois information only
shows the domain being registered at some point before 2015 it became
unregistered.
<img src="media/image21.png" style="width:6.26806in;height:1.94821in"
alt="A screenshot of a web page AI-generated content may be incorrect." />

As Adam is a CypherPunk and claims Satoshi was if we examine the
CypherPunks mailing list for we might find an announcement of this
domain.

Although not in plain text, an advert is found by searching for the
world upload on the cypherpunks archive of
[marc.info](https://marc.info/?l=cypherpunks&m=95279167920198&w=2).
Going through the emails around this time looking for potential uses of
steganography we can immediately find something interesting.

The email is posted below:

---

List: [cypherpunks](https://marc.info/?l=cypherpunks&r=1&w=2)

Subject: What up, ,Come see me again.

From: ["Carlo Brandon" \<mareesa () mobyfan !
com\>](https://marc.info/?a=111245073100004&r=1&w=2)

Date: [2005-04-02
14:03:37](https://marc.info/?l=cypherpunks&r=1&w=2&b=200504)

Message-ID: [20040512191020.56043.qmail () web21501 ! mail ! yahoo !
com](https://marc.info/?i=20040512191020.56043.qmail%20()%20web21501%20!%20mail%20!%20yahoo%20!%20com)

**---**

"You've got to check out my new site; Somebody taught

me how to upload them last nite; Im pretty new at this but

check em out and see what u think!"

Pics are HERE!

Copy and pa ste the addre.ss below and put it into your browser.

Http://www.dioderidden.aerosol.pettlespuzzle.com/cs2/

dont want no more

httP://www.intrepid.southsideplaya.com/retract/

throwaway acreage silk phosphorescent cameramen drizzly yankton
chloride. harcourt \\

sepulchral maier newell. potassium card.

---

We can see plainly that the plaintext written URL in the email body is
not valid. Also, the subject line contains a substantial error with 2
commas randomly inserted into the middle of a nonsense and uninformative
subject line.

Performing a very quick steganalysis:

The errors within the quotation marks within the body of the email the
missing apostrophe from “Im” and the first one being immediately
preceded by the letter u suggests that we are looking for a word
starting with ‘u’ which would be upload.

This is subtly confirmed by the usage of ‘u’ as opposed to ‘you’ in the
second half of the sentence.

As for the TDL (Top-Domain-Level) we can find it above the plain-text
domain they give us. We can confirm this in a similar manner to
confirming the upload extraction by noticing the emphasis on the letter
e in the second half of the quotation and the capitalized HERE above the
“pa ste” error. Suggesting ‘ae’ as a TDL giving us a result of:
“upload.ae”

The sender of this email has only ever sent this email to the mailing
list suggesting that it is a place for nefarious activities that people
would rather not be associated with.

Maybe the sender provided a particular file that the user uploaded if we
were to continue to decode it. I expect you as a regular citizen of the
world are as uninterested in the contents of any such secretly
advertised URL as I am. When these are the methods used to find your
customers there aren’t many places normal people will want to venture.
We have the information we need to form logical assumptions about the
people involved and move forward with our analysis.

We can only assume this is a secretive advertisement for the file
sharing service Satoshi used, thus we can infer that not only did
Satoshi have knowledge of this kind of steganographic method if he was a
real cypherpunk but that Adam Back as a cypherpunk and avid participant
of the Steganography mailing list also is.

Although I have not formally decoded this email, I’m not sure it
requires it since even to the casual observer there are some quite
drastic errors in it. To demonstrate a different kind of puzzle, Rand
al'Thor posted to
[puzzle.stackexchange.com](https://puzzling.stackexchange.com/questions/11088/a-mysterious-email-from-andrew-void)
an email that needs to be decoded. Yes, people really do this for fun as
well. This puzzle doesn’t seem to use TFEs as we have, but maybe you
will be able to solve it:

*You are a secret agent in the service of the KGB, about to embark on a
highly dangerous mission to infiltrate MI6. You have your disguise, your
papers, and your backstory all prepared. The night before your
departure, you receive the following email:*

From: Andrew Void \< a.void@disparition.com \>

Sent: Fri, 27 Mar 2015 11:57AM +0400

To: ██████████████████████

Subject: Your work

Dear Mr Smith,

This is to inform you that your poem is now nearly noted up for
publication. Its age notwithstanding, this poem will fit as part of a
vast pattern of poems that spans millennia. You stand among us now as a
poet, throned among such applauded poets as Aristophanes, Plato, Byron,
and so on. As one of us, your poetic prowess will not go unadmired.

Many congratulations!

Andrew

*Mr Smith is the pseudonym you will be adopting on your mission in
Britain, but you do not recognise the name Andrew Void or the email
address. You are about to delete the email as spam, but some instinct
tells you to examine it more closely. After a few minutes at your
computer, you find the hidden message within it and slump back in your
chair, disappointed.*

***What is the hidden message?***

There is rather large hint further into this document since knowing that
piece of information is quite important for your ability to decode this
one.

When compiling this document in its final form and reviewing the
overview of each section it occurred to me. When first created the
overview list for this analysis I noted that there are no visual
anomalies, it is the most basic section with no diagram, references,
hyphens or anything of that nature, only two instances of CPU
capitalised. Reference \[6\] is also Adam Backs reference number, the
fact that it is baren except for these capitalisations my indicate that
Craig Wright as author of the Bitcoin White Paper believes Adam has
contributed little if anything of value.

The positioning of CPU surrounding a paragraph relating to transaction
fees providing the incentive and no longer requiring new coins to enter
circulation providing a system that is inflation free may say something.
Adam Back et al. due to either their inability or unwillingness to scale
the number of transactions that BTC can process, have been discussing
the possibility of removing the limit on new coins meaning that whatever
system they may oversee will not conform to this paragraph of the paper.

It is quite well established in the Bitcoin zeitgeist that the number of
coins is fixed, at least it was at the start. It isn’t clear what other
“features” and “capabilities” may be added, but their plan is to
“ossify” at some point If you are reading this then are learning.

# Hashing it out, – in public

Returning to our White Paper Steg puzzle from section 5 and the last in
our key. Typically, in steganography puzzles the solution is related to
the context in which this puzzle is found. This is a technical paper
describing a network process to automatically economically determine the
winner in a GAME-OVER successive rounds. In this puzzle are searching
for some unique string that has meaning related to the game this author
is playing. Maybe the final message isn’t a name at all but a taunt to
antagonise certain people the invention threatens just that little bit
more. The invention is entirely based on game theory. It is possible
that Satoshi used this area to simulate how the winners and losers
within his invention are determined.

We may be able to estimate how the list is supposed to work by
understanding the network. This needs to be determined somehow. Our
overall goal is to have each line or elements with the line select a
letter conforming to some basic rules that we might be able to interpret
from what we are seeing. This is typically what steganalysis entails.

Using the theory that a letter would be representative of a hash string,
or “a number of zero” bits, then our competitors in each round of the
game must produce a certain string for the winner to be determined. The
winners being the word or letter that occurs the most. This is
frequently otherwise known as frequency analysis. It is a standard tool
in a steganographers tool kit. While we may not be exactly right about
how we think this will work, experimenting will help us understand if we
are on the right path.

If correct, then we can probably expect a starting state to be denoted
somehow, maybe with possible contenders and then reach round separating
the letter we are looking for in each instance. The starting state would
logically be towards the top of the list. We don’t know how many rounds
we are searching for but at this early stage lets assume that a round is
a numbered step in our process outlined in the list giving us a message
of 6 characters.

To see more structure in the steps and considering a block in bitcoin is
identified uniquely with “a number of zero” bits at the start we can
assume that we should perform a unique word frequency analysis over the
text that start in a similar way. For example, accept, acceptance,
accepted. To do this I have simply coloured each unique word that
appears more than once.

Quickly checking for duplicated words in each line:

The steps to run the network are as follows:

1\) New transactions are broadcast to all nodes.

2\) Each node collects new transactions into a block.

3\) Each node works on finding a difficult **proof-of-work** for its
block.

4\) When a node finds a **proof-of-work**, it broadcasts the block to
all nodes.

5\) Nodes accept the block only if all transactions in it are valid and
not already spent.

6\) Nodes express their acceptance of the block by working on creating
the next block in the chain, using the hash of the accepted block as the
previous hash.

This doesn’t seem to give us much indication of anything other than as a
more visible overview of how evenly each word and thus character is
distributed throughout the text.

Starting simplistically at the first line and ordering by the starting
letter frequency we get:

1\) (New, nodes), (Transaction, to), (are, all), (broadcast)

Revealing a first letter frequency of:

(N,2), (T,2), (A,2), (B,1)

When performing this first search, we immediately encounter a problem.
We have three contenders for our letter. When considering words at this
level, having a number of letters at equal positions is very likely
going to be the case in every line we try to decode. We could analyse
the frequency of letters but are likely to encounter a similar problem
in that there are a few very common letters that will appear much more
frequently than others. Creating noise in our result. The most common
example being the letter ‘e’.

The letter ‘e’ is so common among Latin alphabet languages that French
author Georges Perec proved his mastery of language by writing an entire
novel without a single instance of it. This technique of adding
additional limits to the language you use in a piece of text or writing
is called Oulipo (pronounced Ou-lip-o) constraints. Oulipo is an
abbreviation of Ouvroir de littérature potentielle; (workshop of
potential literature). A similar technique to what we are currently
undertaking. Interestingly from our perspective the book titled “La
Disparition” and published in 1969, translated into English by Gilbert
Adair under the title “A Void” in 1995 a disappearance is a central
theme and point of the book. It has been translated into many different
languages of various skills, some of whom have successfully managed to
keep the feature of not including ‘e’. Obviously, some languages such
don’t lend themselves well to this restriction, but that is the entire
point. To prove something to either the world or; the author wishing to
prove something to themselves.

To reduce noise the author could have inferred several instructions that
add rules to our current assumed instructions. Since we are facing a
granularity problem, we are likely looking at a battle of character
frequency as opposed to words. The problem that would need to be solved
by the encoder and decoder is that of noise generated by useless
letters.

Before looking for the other errors we noted as potential instructions
it may help to re-examine our list so that we can understand what kind
of instructions we might be looking for:

1\) New transactions are broadcast to all nodes.

2\) Each node collects new transactions into a block.

3\) Each node works on finding a difficult **proof-of-work** for its
block.

4\) When a node finds a **proof-of-work**, it broadcasts the block to
all nodes.

5\) Nodes accept the block only if all transactions in it are valid and
not already spent.

6\) Nodes express their acceptance of the block by working on creating
the next block in the chain, using the hash of the accepted block as the
previous hash.

Notes on distribution of words and thus letter frequency.

- “(New) Transactions” and “broadcast(s)” are found towards the top

- Node is quite uniform throughout

- Proof of work is hyphenated and in the middle of the text lines and
  columns.

- Block is more heavily waited to the last points with line 6 containing
  3 instances.

- Hash is mentioned twice in the last step.

Now examining the text below it as two paragraphs:

Nodes always consider the longest chain to be the correct one and will
keep working on extending it. If two nodes broadcast different versions
of the next block simultaneously, some nodes may receive one or the
other first. In that case, they work on the first one they received, but
save the other branch in case it becomes longer. The tie will be broken
when the next proofof-work is found and one branch becomes longer; the
nodes that were working on the other branch will then switch to the
longer one.

New transaction broadcasts do not necessarily need to reach all nodes.
As long as they reach many nodes, they will get into a block before
long. Block broadcasts are also tolerant of dropped messages. If a node
does not receive a block, it will request it when it receives the next
block and realizes it missed one.

Recalling that we have removed the line breaks which do have an error
within them but we are for now at least focused on what we can see, we
can see the missing hyphen which the misplaced line breaks seem to have
caused, these are highlighted in red.

Highlighted in blue is a missing comma indicated by spell check, these
mistakes at in very close proximity and maybe related. Also, in
proximity are the other features we noted, the documents only semi-colon
and a comma that if moved from its current position after received and
input after found fixes the spellcheckers error. We can’t know if we are
using the same spellcheck that the author used but in today’s modern
world, they all have a standard ruleset for each language and subset
thereof.

Given that we have punctuation out of order in the paragraph below the
list we can probably assume that this demarks the starting point or
ending points of the strings, we must analyse but also that we may have
to reorder them. It maybe easier to examine the punctuation in each
while comparing their position more thoroughly. The list its punctuation
and the associate errors from the paragraph below to are separated and
analysed below, we have included the top line above the list this time
due to its use of colon which maybe important as we are examining this
type of punctuation mark. We have also replaced each number with its
index in the line starting from 1.

The steps to run the network are as follows:

1\) \[1\] \[2\] \[3\] \[4\] \[5\] \[6\] \[7\]. ^-- Colon

2\) \[1\] \[2\] \[3\] \[4\] \[5\] \[6\] \[7\] \[8\].

3\) \[1\] \[2\] \[3\] \[4\] \[5\] \[6\] \[7\] \[8\],

\[1\] \[2\] \[3\].

4\) \[1\] \[2\] \[3\] \[4\] \[5\] \[6\], \[1\] \[2\] \[3\] \[4\] \[5\]
\[6\] \[7\].

5\) \[1\] \[2\] \[3\] \[4\] \[5\] \[6\] \[7\] \[8\] \[9\] \[10\] \[11\]
\[12\] \[13\] \[14\] \[15\] \[16\].

6\) \[1\] \[2\] \[3\] \[4\] \[5\] \[6\] \[7\] \[8\] \[0\] \[10\] \[11\]
\[12\] \[13\] \[14\] \[15\] \[16\] \[17\],

\[18\]\[19\]\[20\]\[21\]\[22\]\[23\]\[24\]\[25\]\[26\]\[27\]\[28\].

We likely have events, message or branches denoted by commas or periods.
If this is the case one would logically think that we would need one at
the start of the game. It is of note that each of our spaces is a letter
and that there is plenty of room within each line for a steganographer
to play a matching game with themselves. Running a little piece of
software for each revision, then copy and pasting it from the final
document running the same analysis they would be confident that their
method would be forever enshrined within the words they have written. We
are hoping piece together this same analysis resulting in a message they
embedded. For a Steganography proof it is a little fuzzier than that.
The principles of Steganography would dictate that the three-letter
string we are assuming are the initials of the author must be related to
the information we obtain. If it is not, then we aren’t finished. The
message we have already extracted should be used as a check sum of the
message. Although the proof is in the method, and cover, it is not
running some random piece of software over random paragraphs with random
parameters to hopefully generate something of meaning. There must be a
simple way within the document to verify the message extracted so that
any reader that wishes to verify the message with its sender they could
see if the message extracted matches the shorter abbreviation.

Listing the paragraphs below the list and separating them by their every
punctuation mark and ignoring the letters we get the following:

1 \[\] \[\] \[\] \[\] \[\] \[\] \[\] \[\] \[\] \[\] \[\] \[\] \[\] \[\]
\[\] \[\] \[\] \[\].

2 \[\] \[\] \[\] \[\] \[\] \[\] \[\] \[\] \[\] \[\] \[\],

3 \[\] \[\] \[\] \[\] \[\] \[\] \[\] \[\] \[\].

4 \[\] \[\] \[\],

5 \[\] \[\] \[\] \[\] \[\] \[\] \[\] \[\],

6 \[\] \[\] \[\] \[\] \[\] \[\] \[\] \[\] \[\] \[\].

7 \[\] \[\] \[\] \[\] \[\] \[\] \[\] \[\] \[\] \[\] \[\] \[\] \[\] \[\]
\[\] \[\]; \<-- Semi-Colon

8 \[\] \[\] \[\] \[\] \[\] \[\] \[\] \[\] \[\] \[\] \[\] \[\] \[\] \[\]
\[\].

This pattern is:

\[ . , . , , . . , .\] \<- 9 elements

This doesn’t seem to match the pattern from our list which is:

\[ . . . . . , . . . , .\] \<- 11 elements

Although discounting the colon we reintegrated we get the same number of
elements they don’t seem to form a consistent pattern as the number of
commas within each.

\[ . . . , . . . , .\] \<- 9 elements (without colon)

There are two extra commas and 2 less periods, this may indicate which
lines need to be altered to get a readable message, but we can’t infer
how they should be manipulated.

After quite a bit of deliberation, on whether or not certain things are
actually errors or not, I have come to the conclusion that if these
errors are indeed intended to be communicated via incredibly subtle
slight of speech and an assumption that this document would be in detail
like we are then the spell check of common word processing software
would be a powerful tool utilise to inject errors into anyone’s
analysis. Lining up the hyphenations with the ends of the line is a very
subtle way of injecting steganography into a steganalysis that some may
perform. This works particularly well in cases such as this where there
is only one known format that the publisher and file that we know was
used and published by the author. The person encoding these messages
must have some form of social issue as it is an incredibly carefully
considered error to make injected in such a way that it sounds
preposterous to anyone that has not been through the decode step by
step. Spellcheckers, however, are a very useful tool to help indicate
what might or might not be a manipulation that we are to interpret as
instructions to an eagle-eyed reader.

When looking at the sentences below our list:

Nodes always consider the longest chain to be the correct one and will
keep working on extending it.

If two nodes broadcast different versions of the next block
simultaneously, some nodes may receive one or the other first.

In that case, they work on the first one they received, but save the
other branch in case it becomes longer.

The tie will be broken when the next proofof-work is found and one
branch becomes longer; the nodes that were working on the other branch
will then switch to the longer one.

New transaction broadcasts do not necessarily need to reach all nodes.

<u>As long as</u> they reach many nodes, they will get into a block
before long.

Block broadcasts are also tolerant of dropped messages.

If a node does not receive a block, it will request it when it receives
the next block and realizes it missed one.

Most normal people have learned to largely ignore spellcheck errors if
they feel the software is being too fussy about what we are trying to
write. When I noticed the following error, it was picked up by the
spell-checking functionality indicating an unnatural choice of words and
that we should reconsider our phrasing. This made me rethink the
sentence this error is within. It is in fact, worded very clearly from a
steganographic perspective.

As long as they reach many nodes, they will get into a block before
long.

The spellcheck functionality suggests “As long as” should be “IF.” The
fact that this sentence ends with the word spellcheck is suggesting we
remove. This sentence behaviour is common in instructions and seems to
confirm this suspicion. We should also note that the word before long at
the end of the sentence is before. We can assume that this will either
mean we end our removal of letters before the end of the word “long”, or
before long has finished leaving us with a ‘G’.

As long as they reach many nodes, they will get into a block before
long.

IF

The most complex version of this instruction that we could consider is
that we should remove all instances of ‘a, s, l, o, n’ and replace I
with F or F with I. It may be a bit of a stretch to know that a
spellcheck suggestion could be used so precisely so if we are swapping
letter, we should look for a signal that might be clearer than this. It
is unlikely that the author is inferring that we replace all or some of
the letters with either I or F or some kind of combination due to the
dead-end this investigation would hit and the number of possible
combinations this creates being too numerous for anyone to reasonably
decode without brute forcing an answer out of the text and ambiguous
rules.

It seems the concept we are dealing with is that of a “game to produce
letters”, a blockchain where each round is denoted by punctuation. The
highest frequency letter wins the race. We should note that we will have
packet loss due to our method of reducing noise. The method we found to
reduce the noise with a slight modification to our understanding could
also be used to amplify a signal. We can look at the other errors in the
paragraphs below again:

In that case, they work on the first one they received, but save the
other branch in case it becomes longer. The tie will be broken when the
next **proof-of-work** is found and one branch becomes longer; the nodes
that were working on the other branch will then switch to the longer
one.

As we mentioned the spellchecker is advising that we move the comma from
after received to after found. Received and found are things that our
competing letters are doing, sometimes receiving letters others have
found and sometimes finding the letters themselves. If we are to take
these instructions at face value, we might be expected to replace the
letter F with R at some point in our analysis.

On the topic of swapping things, it is common in steganography when
manipulating things to only perform one action at a time, this if we are
going to need to swap lines around during the analysis then these lines
will be next to each other unless we find specific instructions.

We haven’t seen an instruction containing the letter e which we
originally pointed out is a source of a large amount of noise when
performing such analysis, this infers that it is either a consideration
we are assumed to undertake as we are already clearing noise, or that
one of our letters is E.

Finally, there is something missing which order do we work in and with
which line do we start?

Reconsidering the other errors we have come across the missing hyphen
within “non reversible” may be relevant and not just one overlooked when
dealing with so many across the document in such an instrumental way.
Seems unlikely to be a coincidence at this point that one of the
instances of “non reversable “is either missing an e for the word “none”
or missing a hyphen. We could consider that this is a signal to also
drop the “e” like other letters but also that if we run the simulation
in reverse, starting at the last period we should find our answer.

Finally, before we move onto experimenting with our letter frequency
analysis over the 6-step list in the Network Section of the Bitcoin
White Paper, lets summaries the instructions we think we have so far and
where they come from:

- Count number of letters in line to get winner

  - Inferred by Bitcoin network mechanics

- Start from last point at last letter

  - Missing hyphenation in non-reversible

- Noise Reduction

  - Remove letters AS LON & E

    - “As long as, before long”

    - “NonE reversible” steganographicly valid yet, not grammatically.

- Signal Amplification

  - Replace F with R

    - Comma moving from received to found.

- Change order of lines

  - Comma moving

  - Semi colon

  - Colon

- Expect packet loss

  - Inferred by Bitcoin network mechanics and steganography process

  - Plain text.

This is a lot of manipulation indicating the difficulty in producing a
legible answer.

Traditionally people expect that doing this type of decoding work takes
understanding complex pieces of software with so much customization
abilities that we would essentially be trying to brute force every
permeation of the cover text possible. However, this is never how
steganography in practice works for text applications. Sometime the
author cares so much about their work that they wish to secretly
communicate the works author within the text itself. This would be
especially common if the author wishes to use a pseudonym at
publication. Often the only way to be assured your work is correctly
preserved and correctly attributed no matter what else happens is to
embed your name within the words themselves. To analyse this, we need
little more than a spreadsheet to help us in our counting.

Pasting our strings into a spreadsheet and using the formula:

=LOWER(REGEXREPLACE(\[string\],\[select\], \[replace\]))

We can use columns to remove the characters one after the other so we
can check the process as we go. First removing all the white spaces and
leading unecassary characters while unnecessary will help you the
audience see what is happening at each step and why. We have also added
a new naming convention for each line in the order indicated by the
missing hyphen in reversible.

| \# | End | STRING | misc. |
|----|----|----|----|
| 9 | : | thestepstorunthenetworkareasfollows |  |
| 8 | . | Newtransactionsarebroadcasttoallnodes |  |
| 7 | . | Eachnodecollectsnewtransactionsintoablock |  |
| 6 | . | eachnodeworksonfindingadifficultproofofworkforitsblock | -- |
| 5 | , | whenanodefindsaproofofwork | -- |
| 4 | . | itbroadcaststheblocktoallnodes |  |
| 3 | . | nodesaccepttheblockonlyifalltransactionsinitarevalidandnotalreadyspent |  |
| 2 | , | nodesexpresstheiracceptanceoftheblockbyworkingoncreatingthenextblockinthechain |  |
| 1 | . | usingthehashoftheacceptedblockastheprevioushash |  |

Removing the letters: \[e,a,s,l,o,n,g,\]

| \#  | End | STRING                                     | misc. |
|-----|-----|--------------------------------------------|-------|
| 9   | :   | thtptruthtwrkrfw                           |       |
| 8   | .   | wtrctirbrdcttd                             |       |
| 7   | .   | chdcctwtrctiitbck                          |       |
| 6   | .   | chdwrkfididifficutprffwrkfritbck           | --    |
| 5   | ,   | whdfidprffwrk                              | --    |
| 4   | .   | itbrdctthbcktd                             |       |
| 3   | .   | dccptthbckyiftrctiiitrviddtrdypt           |       |
| 2   | ,   | dxprthirccptcfthbckbywrkicrtithxtbckithchi |       |
| 1   | .   | uithhhfthccptdbckthprviuhh                 |       |

Our final manipulation replacing f with r we get the following:

| \#  | End | STRING                                     | misc. |
|-----|-----|--------------------------------------------|-------|
| 9   | :   | thtptruthtwrkrrw                           |       |
| 8   | .   | wtrctirbrdcttd                             |       |
| 7   | .   | chdcctwtrctiitbck                          |       |
| 6   | .   | chdwrkrididirricutprrrwrkrritbck           | --    |
| 5   | ,   | Whdridprrrwrk                              | --    |
| 4   | .   | itbrdctthbcktd                             |       |
| 3   | .   | dccptthbckyirtrctiiitrviddtrdypt           |       |
| 2   | ,   | dxprthirccptcrthbckbywrkicrtithxtbckithchi |       |
| 1   | .   | uithhhrthccptdbckthprviuhh                 |       |

Using these strings, we can use the formula:

=LEN(STRING)- LEN(SUBSTITUTE(STRING, LETTER,""))

To obtain the number of each letter in each line.

This works simply by counting the length, removing the letter, and
recounting and the difference is the number of occurrences.

If we count each letter in each line we find in a matrix of each line we
get the following:

| **Drop** | **e** | **a** | **s** | **l** | **o** | **n** | **g** | **Round results** |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | **f** | **-\>** | **r** | **Swap** |  |
|:--:|:--:|:--:|:--:|:--:|:--:|:--:|:--:|:--:|:--:|:--:|:--:|:--:|:--:|:--:|:--:|:--:|:--:|:--:|:--:|:--:|
| **Line** | **b** | **c** | **d** | **h** | **i** | **j** | **k** | **m** | **p** | **q** | **r** | **t** | **u** | **v** | **w** | **x** | **y** | **z** | **output** | **end** |
| **9** | 0 | 0 | 0 | 2 | 0 | 0 | 1 | 0 | 1 | 0 | 4 | 5 | 1 | 0 | 2 | 0 | 0 | 0 | **T** | **:** |
| **8** | 1 | 2 | 2 | 0 | 1 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 3 | 4 | 0 | 0 | 1 | 0 | 0 | 0 | **S** | **.** |
| **7** | 1 | 5 | 1 | 1 | 2 | 0 | 1 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 1 | 4 | 0 | 0 | 1 | 0 | 0 | 0 | **C** | **.** |
| **6** | 1 | 3 | 3 | 1 | 5 | 0 | 3 | 0 | 1 | 0 | 10 | 2 | 1 | 0 | 2 | 0 | 0 | 0 | **R** | **.** |
| **5** | 0 | 0 | 2 | 1 | 1 | 0 | 1 | 0 | 1 | 0 | 5 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 2 | 0 | 0 | 0 | **R** | **,** |
| **4** | 2 | 2 | 2 | 1 | 1 | 0 | 1 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 1 | 4 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | **T** | **.** |
| **3** | 1 | 4 | 4 | 1 | 5 | 0 | 1 | 0 | 2 | 0 | 4 | 7 | 0 | 1 | 0 | 0 | 2 | 0 | **T** | **.** |
| **2** | 3 | 7 | 1 | 5 | 5 | 0 | 3 | 0 | 2 | 0 | 5 | 7 | 0 | 0 | 1 | 2 | 1 | 0 | **C** | **,** |
| **1** | 1 | 3 | 1 | 7 | 2 | 0 | 1 | 0 | 2 | 0 | 2 | 4 | 2 | 1 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | **H** | **.** |
| **Total** | **10** | **26** | **16** | **19** | **22** | **0** | **12** | **0** | **9** | **0** | **35** | **37** | **4** | **2** | **9** | **2** | **3** | **0** | **235** |  |

We know that we are starting from the bottom and working our way up and
have been told that in bitcoin at least, the winner is chosen by the one
that produces the greatest number of hashes with most frequency will end
up the winner. Then in the next round a new unique hash and thus block
must be found, thus the previous winner cannot win this new round. This
means that we must go line by line eliminating the last rounds winner as
a contender.

The first thing we need to do before that is to create a matrix of sum
totals of each letter, so that you can see what is going on clearly, we
will stick to the format of the table above. Summing the count of each
letter from line at index 1 generates:

| **Drop** | **e** | **a** | **s** | **l** | **o** | **n** | **g** | **Race Conditions** |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | **f** | **-\>** | **r** | **Swap** |  |
|:--:|:--:|:--:|:--:|:--:|:--:|:--:|:--:|:--:|:--:|:--:|:--:|:--:|:--:|:--:|:--:|:--:|:--:|:--:|:--:|:--:|
| **Line** | **b** | **c** | **d** | **h** | **i** | **j** | **k** | **m** | **p** | **q** | **r** | **t** | **u** | **v** | **w** | **x** | **y** | **z** | **output** | **end** |
| **9** | **10** | **26** | **16** | **19** | **22** | **0** | **12** | **0** | **9** | **0** | **35** | **37** | **4** | **2** | **9** | **2** | **3** | **0** | **T** | **:** |
| **8** | **10** | **26** | **16** | **17** | **22** | **0** | **11** | **0** | **8** | **0** | **31** | **32** | **3** | **2** | **7** | **2** | **3** | **0** | **T** | **.** |
| **7** | **9** | **24** | **14** | **17** | **21** | **0** | **11** | **0** | **8** | **0** | **28** | **28** | **3** | **2** | **6** | **2** | **3** | **0** | **R** | **.** |
| **6** | **8** | **19** | **13** | **16** | **19** | **0** | **10** | **0** | **8** | **0** | **27** | **24** | **3** | **2** | **5** | **2** | **3** | **0** | **R** | **.** |
| **5** | **7** | **16** | **10** | **15** | **14** | **0** | **7** | **0** | **7** | **0** | **17** | **22** | **2** | **2** | **3** | **2** | **3** | **0** | **T** | **,** |
| **4** | **7** | **16** | **8** | **14** | **13** | **0** | **6** | **0** | **6** | **0** | **12** | **22** | **2** | **2** | **1** | **2** | **3** | **0** | **T** | **.** |
| **3** | **5** | **14** | **6** | **13** | **12** | **0** | **5** | **0** | **6** | **0** | **11** | **18** | **2** | **2** | **1** | **2** | **3** | **0** | **T** | **.** |
| **2** | **4** | **10** | **2** | **12** | **7** | **0** | **4** | **0** | **4** | **0** | **7** | **11** | **2** | **1** | **1** | **2** | **1** | **0** | **H** | **,** |
| **1** | **1** | **3** | **1** | **7** | **2** | **0** | **1** | **0** | **2** | **0** | **2** | **4** | **2** | **1** | **0** | **0** | **0** | **0** | **H** | **.** |

We could create a script that selects the winner and eliminates them
from the next string but that is not very visual and overly complex for
our purposes of explaining fundamentally how we have come to this
output.

If we go through the entire table and eliminate the previous selected
letter, we may well have more of an idea of what is being simulated and
what else we might have left to do.

| **Drop** | **e** | **a** | **s** | **l** | **o** | **n** | **g** | **Tournament rules** |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | **f** | **-\>** | **r** | **Swap** |  |
|:--:|:--:|:--:|:--:|:--:|:--:|:--:|:--:|:--:|:--:|:--:|:--:|:--:|:--:|:--:|:--:|:--:|:--:|:--:|:--:|:--:|
| **Line** | **b** | **c** | **d** | **h** | **i** | **j** | **k** | **m** | **p** | **q** | **r** | **t** | **u** | **v** | **w** | **x** | **y** | **z** | **output** | **end** |
| **9** | **-** | **-** | **-** | **-** | **-** | **0** | **-** | **0** | **9** | **0** | **-** | **-** | **4** | **2** | **9** | **2** | **3** | **0** | **P** | **:** |
| **8** | **10** | **-** | **-** | **-** | **-** | **0** | **-** | **0** | **8** | **0** | **-** | **-** | **3** | **2** | **7** | **2** | **3** | **0** | **B** | **.** |
| **7** | **9** | **-** | **-** | **-** | **-** | **0** | **11** | **0** | **8** | **0** | **-** | **-** | **3** | **2** | **6** | **2** | **3** | **0** | **K** | **.** |
| **6** | **8** | **-** | **13** | **-** | **-** | **0** | **10** | **0** | **8** | **0** | **-** | **-** | **3** | **2** | **5** | **2** | **3** | **0** | **D** | **.** |
| **5** | **7** | **-** | **10** | **-** | **-** | **0** | **7** | **0** | **7** | **0** | **17** | **-** | **2** | **2** | **3** | **2** | **3** | **0** | **R** | **,** |
| **4** | **7** | **-** | **8** | **-** | **13** | **0** | **6** | **0** | **6** | **0** | **12** | **-** | **2** | **2** | **1** | **2** | **3** | **0** | **I** | **.** |
| **3** | **5** | **14** | **6** | **-** | **12** | **0** | **5** | **0** | **6** | **0** | **11** | **-** | **2** | **2** | **1** | **2** | **3** | **0** | **C** | **.** |
| **2** | **4** | **10** | **2** | **-** | **7** | **0** | **4** | **0** | **4** | **0** | **7** | **11** | **2** | **1** | **1** | **2** | **1** | **0** | **T** | **,** |
| **1** | **1** | **3** | **1** | **7** | **2** | **0** | **1** | **0** | **2** | **0** | **2** | **4** | **2** | **1** | **0** | **0** | **0** | **0** | **H** | **.** |
| **Total** | **10** | **26** | **16** | **19** | **22** | **0** | **12** | **0** | **9** | **0** | **35** | **37** | **4** | **2** | **9** | **2** | **3** | **0** |  |  |

While there is a tie in the last of the lines, we can’t know if this
line is even needed until we decode our message. Normally in this kind
of list steganography the rules of the decode should be consistent they
don’t necessarily follow the same rules for each character. Due to the
nature of a steganographic elements having to hide within other
potential elements they each need to be uniquely positioned with unique
instructions.

The method being used here is quite ingenious and works perfectly with
its application, if we had no candidates for Satoshi, we would have a
difficult time knowing if anything output was remotely plausible. A
single consistent string of any letter wouldn’t ever tell us anything.
It could be done, but you would need to be very careful and took your
time. Our result would be the same though as we will demonstrate
characteristics like this are not easily generated even with large
modifications to the intended method. Having a potential candidate helps
but it cannot generate consistent steganographic rules in a text where
there are none. This document as it turns out has many of these
inconsistencies.

To us today, it looks like we aren’t far off the intended solution.
Especially as the rest of the puzzle has also indicated that he is the
most likely candidate to have his name come out of a larger final
element. Although there are a few letters \[D, B, K\] they have not in
enough numbers to be included anywhere but the end of our puzzle after
most letter have already been chosen.

We removed the A’s as the instructions directed so it would seem that
Adam Back, is no longer a possibility or at this point any other known
contender for the Satoshi throne. If we are to perform some slight
corrections due to packet loss, ordering, and receiving missed
“transactions” it is unlikely that our current puzzle state will be able
to generate anything other than what its author intended.

We have been told that we should expect messages to sometimes appear in
the wrong order and have also seen that moving a comma after a period
fixes an error, but which one to move may now be a little clearer. In
this case line 2 ends in a comma and line 1 ends in a period, putting
line 2 in the first position generates the first two characters
\[T\]&\[H\].

| **Drop** | **e** | **a** | **s** | **l** | **o** | **n** | **g** | **Tournament rules** |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | **f** | **-\>** | **r** | **Swap** |  |
|:--:|:--:|:--:|:--:|:--:|:--:|:--:|:--:|:--:|:--:|:--:|:--:|:--:|:--:|:--:|:--:|:--:|:--:|:--:|:--:|:--:|
| **Line** | **b** | **c** | **d** | **h** | **i** | **j** | **k** | **m** | **p** | **q** | **r** | **t** | **u** | **v** | **w** | **x** | **y** | **z** | **output** | **end** |
| **9** | **-** | **-** | **-** | **-** | **-** | **0** | **-** | **0** | **9** | **0** | **-** | **-** | **4** | **2** | **9** | **2** | **3** | **0** | **P** | **:** |
| **8** | **10** | **-** | **-** | **-** | **-** | **0** | **-** | **0** | **8** | **0** | **-** | **-** | **3** | **2** | **7** | **2** | **3** | **0** | **B** | **.** |
| **7** | **9** | **-** | **-** | **-** | **-** | **0** | **11** | **0** | **8** | **0** | **-** | **-** | **3** | **2** | **6** | **2** | **3** | **0** | **K** | **.** |
| **6** | **8** | **-** | **13** | **-** | **-** | **0** | **10** | **0** | **8** | **0** | **-** | **-** | **3** | **2** | **5** | **2** | **3** | **0** | **D** | **.** |
| **5** | **7** | **-** | **10** | **-** | **-** | **0** | **7** | **0** | **7** | **0** | **17** | **-** | **2** | **2** | **3** | **2** | **3** | **0** | **R** | **,** |
| **4** | **7** | **-** | **8** | **-** | **13** | **0** | **6** | **0** | **6** | **0** | **12** | **-** | **2** | **2** | **1** | **2** | **3** | **0** | **I** | **.** |
| **3** | **5** | **14** | **6** | **-** | **12** | **0** | **5** | **0** | **6** | **0** | **11** | **-** | **2** | **2** | **1** | **2** | **3** | **0** | **C** | **.** |
| **1** | **1** | **3** | **1** | **7** | **2** | **0** | **1** | **0** | **2** | **0** | **2** | **4** | **2** | **1** | **0** | **0** | **0** | **0** | **H** | **.** |
| **2** | **4** | **10** | **2** | **-** | **7** | **0** | **4** | **0** | **4** | **0** | **7** | **11** | **2** | **1** | **1** | **2** | **1** | **0** | **T** | **,** |
| **Total** | **10** | **26** | **16** | **19** | **22** | **0** | **12** | **0** | **9** | **0** | **35** | **37** | **4** | **2** | **9** | **2** | **3** | **0** | **2/9** |  |

All the rest of the characters are roughly inline with what we would
expect in terms of order with 4 of the early ones exactly matching what
the puzzle has indicated to us.

\<-- solving direction

PBKDRICHT

\_\_\_WRIGHT

We can very quickly fix these problems with what we already have.

C is a letter that is the most like G, further G is one letter we
removed due to the simplistic nature of the ruleset that we where
following, if we take the more complex instructions that G can be left
in the message, maybe it will be put in place.

| **Drop** | **e** | **a** | **s** | **l** | **o** | **n** |  |  | **Reinsert G** |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | **f** | **-\>** | **r** | **Swap** |  |
|:--:|:--:|:--:|:--:|:--:|:--:|:--:|:--:|:--:|:--:|:--:|:--:|:--:|:--:|:--:|:--:|:--:|:--:|:--:|:--:|:--:|:--:|
| **Line** | **b** | **c** | **d** | **g** | **h** | **i** | **j** | **k** | **m** | **p** | **q** | **r** | **t** | **u** | **v** | **w** | **x** | **y** | **z** | **output** | **end** |
| **9** | **-** | **-** | **-** | **4** | **-** | **-** | **0** | **-** | **0** | **9** | **0** | **-** | **-** | **4** | **2** | **9** | **2** | **3** | **0** | **P** | **:** |
| **8** | **10** | **-** | **-** | **4** | **-** | **-** | **0** | **-** | **0** | **8** | **0** | **-** | **-** | **3** | **2** | **7** | **2** | **3** | **0** | **B** | **.** |
| **7** | **9** | **-** | **-** | **4** | **-** | **-** | **0** | **11** | **0** | **8** | **0** | **-** | **-** | **3** | **2** | **6** | **2** | **3** | **0** | **K** | **.** |
| **6** | **8** | **-** | **13** | **4** | **-** | **-** | **0** | **10** | **0** | **8** | **0** | **-** | **-** | **3** | **2** | **5** | **2** | **3** | **0** | **D** | **.** |
| **5** | **7** | **-** | **10** | **3** | **-** | **-** | **0** | **7** | **0** | **7** | **0** | **17** | **-** | **2** | **2** | **3** | **2** | **3** | **0** | **R** | **,** |
| **4** | **7** | **-** | **8** | **3** | **-** | **13** | **0** | **6** | **0** | **6** | **0** | **12** | **-** | **2** | **2** | **1** | **2** | **3** | **0** | **I** | **.** |
| **3** | **5** | **14** | **6** | **3** | **-** | **12** | **0** | **5** | **0** | **6** | **0** | **11** | **-** | **2** | **2** | **1** | **2** | **3** | **0** | **C** | **.** |
| **1** | **1** | **3** | **1** | **3** | **7** | **2** | **0** | **1** | **0** | **2** | **0** | **2** | **4** | **2** | **1** | **0** | **0** | **0** | **0** | **H** | **.** |
| **2** | **4** | **10** | **2** | **1** | **-** | **7** | **0** | **4** | **0** | **4** | **0** | **7** | **11** | **2** | **1** | **1** | **2** | **1** | **0** | **T** | **,** |
| **Total** | **10** | **26** | **16** | **4** | **19** | **22** | **0** | **12** | **0** | **9** | **0** | **35** | **37** | **4** | **2** | **9** | **2** | **3** | **0** | **4/9** |  |

As we can see there are nowhere near enough Gs to be considered becoming
a competitor without significant manipulation of this race. From
removing a letter as per instructions to boosting it is likely one step
too far.

PBK**DR**ICHT \<output

\_\_\_**WRIGHT \<target**

In place of the expected W, we have D. If we, you remember that the W is
the only single starting letter of the line but also where we had the
strange behaviour when copy and pasting much like the hyphens. Of note
that Craig Wright held a Doctor of Philosophy at the time making him Dr
Wright. This could be an extra coincidence that sweetens the deal, or a
red hearing to make us believe that we are done.

Many things indicate that the round should reset from this position, or
something to that effect, the line before also has a comma which we have
had to swap has indicated that instructions might be reset first lines
around starts with a comma. This could indicate that it is a comma that
denotes a block in our bitcoin simulation. Thus, we take the only
non-repeated letter starting a line in the list, giving us:

PBK**WRICHT**

\_\_\_**WRIGHT**

We are now left with a conundrum we can now clearly see the name WRIGHT,
but we don’t have any letters that make up his first initials in the top
three contenders for the 2 positions we have from our checksum.

Now that we have exhausted the possibilities of the last name and have
something we can confidently infer is a message communicated within the
lines of the list we can reset the rules and see if we can obtain any
remaining messages.

Letters that will not be shown in the coming tables because they haven’t
been contenders as they don’t appear in any line in the list or very low
down are \[J, M, Q, Z, Y, X, V, U\]. This is just so that we can fit the
previously removed letters and restart the simulation. Considering that
pervious work isn’t carried over to the next round in bitcoin we need to
restart the summation of each character from line 7 in our index of
elements. After doing all this we can calculate the following table of
frequencies:

| **Drop** | **g** | **j** | **m** | **q** | **z** | **y** | **x** |  | **Rules Reset** |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
|:--:|:--:|:--:|:--:|:--:|:--:|:--:|:--:|:--:|:--:|:--:|:--:|:--:|:--:|:--:|:--:|:--:|:--:|:--:|:--:|:--:|
| **Line** | **a** | **b** | **c** | **d** | **f** | **h** | **i** | **k** | **l** | **n** | **o** | **p** | **r** | **s** | **t** | **u** | **v** | **w** | **output** | **end** |
| **9** | **-** | **2** | **-** | **3** | **1** | **3** | **3** | **2** | **7** |  | **13** | **1** | **7** | **11** | **13** | **1** | **0** | **4** | **O** | **:** |
| **8** | **10** | **2** | **-** | **3** | **0** | **1** | **3** | **1** | **5** | **9** | **9** | **0** | **4** | **7** | **8** | **0** | **0** | **2** | **A** | **.** |
| **7** | **4** | **1** | **5** | **1** | **0** | **1** | **2** | **1** | **3** | **5** | **5** | **0** | **1** | **3** | **4** | **0** | **0** | **1** | **C** | **.** |
| **6** |  | **8** | **-** | **13** | **-** | **-** | **-** | **10** | **-** | **-** | **-** | **8** | **-** | **-** | **-** | **3** | **2** | **5** | **(W)** | **.** |
| **5** |  | **7** | **-** | **10** | **-** | **-** | **-** | **7** | **-** | **-** | **-** | **7** | **17** | **-** | **-** | **2** | **2** | **3** | **R** | **,** |
| **4** |  | **7** | **-** | **8** | **-** | **-** | **13** | **6** | **-** | **-** | **-** | **6** | **12** | **-** | **-** | **2** | **2** | **1** | **I** | **.** |
| **3** |  | **5** | **14** | **6** | **-** | **-** | **12** | **5** | **-** | **-** | **-** | **6** | **11** | **-** | **-** | **2** | **2** | **1** | **(G)** | **.** |
| **1** |  | **1** | **3** | **1** | **-** | **7** | **2** | **1** | **-** | **-** | **-** | **2** | **2** | **-** | **4** | **2** | **1** | **0** | **H** | **,** |
| **2** |  | **4** | **10** | **2** | **-** | **-** | **7** | **4** | **-** | **-** | **-** | **4** | **7** | **-** | **11** | **2** | **1** | **1** | **T** | **.** |

This first trial run has resulted in C once again becoming the first
letter, we know this is supposed to be the letter S but this may simply
mean we haven’t got something quite right. We also have a three-letter
tie which while we do have a potential method of organising seems
excessive at this point in the game. The letter S is one we have
filtered from the “As long as” phrasing, if we recall that the word
before led us to believe that reintegrating the letter G would correct
the C into a G. Unfortunately, or fortunately for us, depending on your
perspective now, we can now estimate that the before long referred to
the single letter before the word “long”. That being the S in the word
‘as’. In our bitcoin model it is much like a transaction not making it
into the current block, but then making it into the next, (where blocks
are denoted by a comma).

With this additional information we can infer that we should not
reinsert all the letters, only the ones that we have confirmed by
experimenting with what is and is not possible to reach our target via
the instructions we are finding.

This update yields the following:

| **Drop** | **a** | **l** | **o** | **n** | **j** | **m** | **q** | **x** | **y** | **z** | **f** | **-\>** | **r** | **Swap** |  |
|:--:|:--:|:--:|:--:|:--:|:--:|:--:|:--:|:--:|:--:|:--:|:--:|:--:|:--:|:--:|:--:|
| **Line** | **b** | **c** | **d** | **h** | **i** | **k** | **p** | **r** | **s** | **t** | **u** | **v** | **w** | **output** | **end** |
| **9** | **2** | **7** | **3** | **3** | **3** | **2** | **1** | **8** | **11** | **13** | **1** | **0** | **4** | **S** | **:** |
| **8** | **2** | **7** | **3** | **1** | **3** | **1** | **0** | **4** | **7** | **8** | **0** | **0** | **2** | **T** | **.** |
| **7** | **1** | **5** | **1** | **1** | **2** | **1** | **0** | **1** | **3** | **4** | **0** | **0** | **1** | **C** | **.** |
| **6** | **8** | **-** | **13** | **-** | **-** | **10** | **8** | **-** | **-** | **-** | **3** | **2** | **5** | **(W)** | **.** |
| **5** | **7** | **-** | **10** | **-** | **-** | **7** | **7** | **17** | **-** | **-** | **2** | **2** | **3** | **R** | **,** |
| **4** | **7** | **-** | **8** | **-** | **13** | **6** | **6** | **12** | **-** | **-** | **2** | **2** | **1** | **I** | **.** |
| **3** | **5** | **14** | **6** | **-** | **12** | **5** | **6** | **11** | **-** | **-** | **2** | **2** | **1** | **C** | **.** |
| **1** | **1** | **3** | **1** | **7** | **2** | **1** | **2** | **2** | **-** | **4** | **2** | **1** | **0** | **H** | **,** |
| **2** | **4** | **10** | **2** | **-** | **7** | **4** | **4** | **7** | **-** | **11** | **2** | **1** | **1** | **T** | **.** |

This is frustrating, although we now have the C and S by following the
rules more closely, we are still missing something. With a T in the
middle separating the two in the wrong order meaning this message still
does not validate against the checksum found in the references. There
are two interesting things about these letters that is worth
considering. The C and the T have been used previously in our string.
This maybe important since each letter is supposed to represent a block
and blocks are uniquely identified we aren’t correctly simulating the
network.

The C has been utilised in place of a G which couldn’t keep up with the
others. This still meets the steganographic criteria but not the list,
we are maybe able to give a bit of leeway on this letter if we find the
correct solution.

The T has been used previously and although we needed to swap the lines
around which was instructed by errors, allowed us to move on to the next
part of the puzzle.

Generating possibly a final table last finally we achieve a complete
string that is looking finished and save for a single manipulation while
abiding by all the rules we have discovered in our steganalysis of the
Bitcoin WhitePaper:

| **Drop** | **a** | **l** | **o** | **n** | **j** | **m** | **q** | **x** | **y** | **z** | **f** | **-\>** | **r** | **Swap** |  |
|:--:|:--:|:--:|:--:|:--:|:--:|:--:|:--:|:--:|:--:|:--:|:--:|:--:|:--:|:--:|:--:|
| **Line** | **b** | **c** | **d** | **h** | **i** | **k** | **p** | **r** | **s** | **t** | **u** | **v** | **w** | **output** | **end** |
| **9** | **2** | **-** | **3** | **3** | **3** | **2** | **1** | **8** | **-** | **-** | **1** | **0** | **4** | **W** | **:** |
| **8** | **2** | **-** | **3** | **1** | **3** | **1** | **0** | **4** | **7** | **-** | **0** | **0** | **2** | **S** | **.** |
| **7** | **1** | **5** | **1** | **1** | **2** | **1** | **0** | **1** | **3** | **-** | **0** | **0** | **1** | **C** | **.** |
| **6** | **8** | **-** | **13** | **-** | **-** | **10** | **8** | **-** | **-** | **-** | **3** | **2** | **5** | **D** | **.** |
| **5** | **7** | **-** | **10** | **-** | **-** | **7** | **7** | **17** | **-** | **-** | **2** | **2** | **3** | **R** | **,** |
| **4** | **7** | **-** | **8** | **-** | **13** | **6** | **6** | **12** | **-** | **-** | **2** | **2** | **1** | **I** | **.** |
| **3** | **5** | **14** | **6** | **-** | **12** | **5** | **6** | **11** | **-** | **-** | **2** | **2** | **1** | **C** | **.** |
| **1** | **1** | **3** | **1** | **7** | **2** | **1** | **2** | **2** | **-** | **4** | **2** | **1** | **0** | **H** | **,** |
| **2** | **4** | **10** | **2** | **-** | **7** | **4** | **4** | **7** | **-** | **11** | **2** | **1** | **1** | **T** | **.** |

Remarkably we get even get ‘W’ as a final letter because we also removed
the R like we did the T and as we were supposed to if we are being
consistent. When writing a secret message in steganography honesty aids
in the communication effort and in steganalysis, honest effort aids in
feeling confident you got the right answer.

After some consideration it seems as though we could be more consistent
in rule application as we have been. In this final step line 9 ends with
a colon, and line 6 that we found began with D is immediately after a
line that ends in a comma. As we have been interpreting commas as an
error in our simulation that requires a swap operation. Then ‘:’ infers
swap order of all elements the final string becomes:

| **Drop** | **a** | **l** | **o** | **n** | **j** | **m** | **q** | **x** | **y** | **z** | **f** | **-\>** | **r** | **Swap** |  |
|:--:|:--:|:--:|:--:|:--:|:--:|:--:|:--:|:--:|:--:|:--:|:--:|:--:|:--:|:--:|:--:|
| **Line** | **b** | **c** | **d** | **h** | **i** | **k** | **p** | **r** | **s** | **t** | **u** | **v** | **w** | **output** | **end** |
| **6** | **8** | **-** | **13** | **-** | **-** | **10** | **8** | **-** | **-** | **-** | **3** | **2** | **5** | **D** | **.** |
| **7** | **1** | **5** | **1** | **1** | **2** | **1** | **0** | **1** | **3** | **-** | **0** | **0** | **1** | **C** | **.** |
| **8** | **2** | **-** | **3** | **1** | **3** | **1** | **0** | **4** | **7** | **-** | **0** | **0** | **2** | **S** | **.** |
| **9** | **2** | **-** | **3** | **3** | **3** | **2** | **1** | **8** | **-** | **-** | **1** | **0** | **4** | **W** | **:** |
| **5** | **7** | **-** | **10** | **-** | **-** | **7** | **7** | **17** | **-** | **-** | **2** | **2** | **3** | **R** | **,** |
| **4** | **7** | **-** | **8** | **-** | **13** | **6** | **6** | **12** | **-** | **-** | **2** | **2** | **1** | **I** | **.** |
| **3** | **5** | **14** | **6** | **-** | **12** | **5** | **6** | **11** | **-** | **-** | **2** | **2** | **1** | **C** | **.** |
| **1** | **1** | **3** | **1** | **7** | **2** | **1** | **2** | **2** | **-** | **4** | **2** | **1** | **0** | **H** | **,** |
| **2** | **4** | **10** | **2** | **-** | **7** | **4** | **4** | **7** | **-** | **11** | **2** | **1** | **1** | **T** | **.** |

Noting the final little feature D. as a title would be a DR. Resulting
in the final message:  
  
**D. C. S. WRICHT \<- Message**

**\[C\],\[S\],\[W\] \<- CheckSum ✅**

# Alt-PoS.

It would be dishonest to say that: DCSWRICHT could not easily be
interpreted to mean Dr C. S. Wright as a covert author of the Bitcoin:
peer-to-peer electronic cash system. It would also be dishonest to say
that we know for certain that there are no other messages within this
paper that we have not found.

Having now completed the decode we set out to by finding a message, the
as the person that found it, I am compelled to note that the first name
I found was D.C.S. WRICHT or some mutation thereof. On consideration of
the method I then attempted to create other names principally ABACK,
ADAMBACK, Richard Hettinga or some permutation of them. While it is in
principle possible to come up with rules without looking for them within
the text. This is not a valid steganalysis method. Performing such an
analysis would be considered in cryptography: “brute forcing”. A
steganographic proof is not in the result of the final string like a
magic artifact, it is in method and the process of extracting it. Like a
metaphysical sword in the stone, it can’t just be pulled out with force.
If one does then they are left with explaining how they came to it, why
they got the message and then must prove they can repeat the process
with other people without communication. This method of writing needs a
light touch to accomplish effectively.

The length of the message and its checksum validating the longer message
is correct makes the chance of this being a feature of chance
inconceivably low:

1234567890 123

DRCSWRIGHT.CSW

Just using the probability of the resulting strings, we can estimate
that brute forcing these 13 letters in order is roughly a 1 in
26<sup>13</sup> chance of occurring:

That is 4e<sup>-19</sup> or a 0.000,000,000,000, 000,000, 004%

Summarising our list of instructions:

- REMOVE

  - A, S, L, O, N, G

- SWAP

  - F -\> R

- REPEAT

  - S

- SWAP LINES

  - 1,2

  - 7,8,9

- BLOCK FOUND

  - Line 6 indentation

  - Single starting letter

- SECONDARY ELEMENTS

  - Reference Key

  - Tape

- REFFERENCES

  - Names

  - Dates

While not an exhaustive list of instructions, missing characters,
positions, spelling errors, formatting breaks in convention and
consistency it helps illustrate just how many thing things had to come
together to get to where we are.

If we are to look at the number of instructions and include them in our
calculation, the number gets truly insane, requiring an additional 17
supporting elements means that the probabilities enter a region of
**3.5e<sup>-30</sup> %** That number looks like:

> 0\. 000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,0035%

That process requires searching for errors and considering their
possible interpretation as instructions to find the letters of a
message. If someone attempts to find a message and then look for their
instructions, they will likely find themselves making no progress. If
someone starts with errors and attempts to try and miss interpret them,
again, they will find themselves making little to no progress in the
direction of the target that they intend to eventually end up with.

Using words or the formatting issue of hyphens to denote which letters
should be filtered or amplified creates an interesting possibility not
always present in steganography puzzles. It presents the opportunity of
a dishonest actor to manipulation what would be considered reasonable
interpretation of a result that the decoder wishes to find as opposed to
objectively finds due to following the clues. The problem in doing this
is that they would likely need to invent a rule and thus a corresponding
mistake, an assumption about an existing rule that is not logical or
ignore a mistake that we know is communicating a rule.

While adjusting the variable may yield some interesting results which
will not be investigating them thoroughly. This is since even if we do
attempt some brute forcing whatever we do will likely not be enough for
some and the task will be never ending.

Since our decoding has highlighted CSW and appears to have crossed out
Adam Backs name the author became curious that maybe some additional
message was contained using his name. Searching of any possible
permutations of Adam Backs name it was found that while many of the
letters needed are contained in the lines in around the right area they
are not in the required frequency or order to be meaningfully extracted
via this method. Further, the chances of being able to pull two
dissimilar names from the same paragraph using effectively the same
methods is more than unlikely. The letter ‘m’ does not appear anywhere
in the text and if we should expect “A Back” this leaves room for an
additional few letters that may be interpreted as another instruction.
Of some kind, yet nothing was ever found.

There are other names that fit a closer criterion for the list sets out,
mainly the author of the first reference and a debated contribution by
Adam Back, Wei Dai. They are also someone that has been speculated to be
Satoshi Nakamoto, although they too [deny these
allegations](https://web.archive.org/web/20180524093530/https:/www.lesswrong.com/posts/ijr8rsyvJci2edxot/making-money-with-bitcoin#hbEu9ue9eymNzaF2J).
Our list contains all letters of their name and initials including the
initial W the line of which under the rules we decoded resulted in D,
the rest of the name being vowels limits this method of extraction with
the clearly intended rules denoted by intentional errors. What is more
both these strings are smaller than our full result and as such by the
rules of bitcoin are superseded by the longer string:

CSW DRICHT which when accompanied by two features resembling check sums
in the network section list and the reference list resulting in CSW. The
steganographic interpretation of the message is clearly intended to be
DR CS WRIGHT.

I found that no matter what I tried I was never able to get a string of
characters even remotely close to another name or initials that would be
recognised as anything meaningful. I invite anyone to try and pull a
different name out of this section, or any other section for that
matter, utilizing a basic frequency analysis or steganalysis.

I did find that the last few lines of the Network section were able to
quite easily generate the letters N, O, T which could infer that Wright
is not Satoshi, however what is more likely is that this is a signal to
the decoder that you can’t reapply all the letters again, the rules must
be applied consistently.

It is, I think, mathematically provable and logical that this is more
robust proof than any cryptographic key and signed message could ever
provide. A private public key pair can be transferred between owners.
Steganography cannot be altered once it is created and published and
thus cannot be transferred. That is why its most useful application is
to covertly name things. And because it cannot be transferred, it is set
in stone just like the protocol it describes.

<img src="media/image22.jpeg" style="width:2.30208in;height:3.76875in"
alt="A screenshot of a computer AI-generated content may be incorrect." />--
During editing (09/03/2025) a friend and colleague in several ventures,
John Pitts, who was extremely interested in my previous work in which I
unmasked the founder and owner of the website AnonymousSpeech.org as
Michael Gronager. As Michael Gronager he is the co-founder of the Crypto
exchange Kraken, founder of Chainalysis who works with governments and
crypto exchanges to trace criminal transactions on the blockchain.
Otherwise known as Micheal Weber he was the founder of
AnonymousSpeech.org a website to buy domains anonymously which Satoshi
used to purchase bitcoin.org for launch. As Micheal Weber he is also the
largest defendant but also a significant claimant in the Celsius
bankruptcy case. Having withdrawn \$55million of BTC and ETH within the
90 of collapse and then tried to seek \$600,000 during the bankruptcy
proceedings. These videos can be viewed on my [X.com profile
here](https://x.com/roman_de_fauvel/status/1842941061913866283).

John pointed out that an account going by u/Knockout_SS on reddit
provided the information pointing to the companies bias in the Satoshi
identity case Craig Wright was in the middle of. The company would have
been able to verify the correctness of Craig Wrights claim and if
verified would alter the makeup of the blockchain industry.

Due to the accounts posting activities pointing towards them being an
avid follower of the developments of BSV, anonymousspeech and everything
surrounding Craig Wright it might be safe to say that there is a
non-zero chance that this person is in fact Craig Wright. He does also
use the same kind of speech anyone following Craig Wright is used to
hearing “coreboy” being one of the core idioms he likes using. It is the
account name here that is most interesting to us. Knockout_SS. In us
decode we have found the filter that removes the letters needed to
produce Craig Wrights name is between SS. A~~**S** LONG A**S**~~.

This is likely all the confirmation we should need that Craig Wright has
been trying to subtly point people in the right direction and to the
truth in the proof.

It is with hindsight that we can look back on what we have uncovered and
reflect that it should have been obvious that the identity of Satoshi
would be uncovered by simply looking for his mistakes. That is after all
how a concealed identity is uncovered, but on this occasion, we should
find it ironic that the mistakes that lead to the unveiling of the truth
were not mistakes at all, but simply a misunderstood author.

In summary, it would be insane and illogical to believe that by running
the rules of the Bitcoin network inferred from errors within the text
that describes how it functions. That one would be able to retrieve any
legible string by chance is beyond the realms of possibility. This
feature must be by design. If we are to ask by ‘who?’ we need only read
the output string and look at real world events and come to our own
conclusions.

# Conclusion. (Thoughts just after full decode)

The author of the white paper has demonstrated that they are a master in
the art of communication no matter the technique and field. To create a
paper with such impact and to so effectively conceal a message within it
without anyone in public being able to tell for at least 16 years is not
only a remarkable display of skill but also self-control.

Steganaography being a commination method is akin to a language that
requires a logical truth in the steps it takes, be them visual
similarities, geometric symmetry, choice in missing additional, or
number of elements. These are all mathematical relationships that
require an encoder and decoder to be honest in their effort to
communicate and receive the same message. It is incredibly difficult to
take a cover text and, without manipulation, create any string of
characters from analysis out of what might be considered an error. It is
even more difficult to create a message that has a meaning within the
context of the medium it is communicated within.

If you have read this analysis in full you should now understand the
concept of why it is a fundamentally different but equally rigorous
process used often to conceal messages. If you want to compare
steganography with today’s technology each message is like a little
computer program written in its own language where an out of place comma
is the difference between a cover and the message the messenger
genuinely wished to send. If you don’t understand why this is an
effective and secure method, then I ask you contemplate the cover of
this report and contemplate why it is the way it is. To someone that has
yet to read the report and the seemingly random order of punctuation it
should be plausible that I have hidden a message within it that only
those that have read the report would be expected to correctly
interpret. I would expect that by now, and maybe after a second read
that with a quick glance and a second look, you might be able to piece
together what is being communicated to those squiggly lines on the page.

While we can’t be certain that other solutions don’t also exist, as is
the nature of this scientific process of experimentation utilizing
existing frameworks and previous articles of work, can’t explore every
potential combination of rules. We may be able to turn once again to the
paper for some insight as to how to deal with this conundrum. Within, it
explains that we should take the first seen and longest chain to base
our assumption of honesty on and thus integrity of everything is hosts.
So far it is the only steganographic solution found and so it is the
longest and first seen. I have tried my best to make other names appear
but being versed in steganography I know that it is hopeless. If you
don’t think it is hopeless then you should, try and make this list or
another area of the paper say another name in steganography that is
longer and more fitting.

To the author of this report and any honest person reading it should be
irrefutable proof that Dr C. S. Wright (C.S.W) authored the Bitcoin
White Paper. Furthermore, Rev. Dr. Wright went to great lengths to make
a point about Adam Back.

From being the first person known to have received an email from Satoshi
to check the reference that was used to then, cross out that reference
possibly after Adam chose not to attribute Dwork and Naors paper. Yet
there is something more sinister about this situation, the service
Satoshi used to deliver the PDF to Adam Back was covertly advertised on
the CypherPunks mailing list in 2005 using steganography. Craig Wright
using that service was clearly aware that this ‘CP’ group utilised and
had good knowledge of Steganography. This could of, and likely has,
opened him up to attack by the group without anyone being publicly
aware.

The author being suspicious of their activities has worked hard and
diligently to point to Adam Back as a dishonest individual. There is
clearly an ongoing dispute over this technology that need to be
addressed publicly. The U.S. Government, which at the time of writing,
is currently organising their economy around technology based on this
White Paper and thus BTC is acting under false pretences.

On one side you have Craig Wright who was prematurely out-ed as Satoshi
Nakamoto by
[W.I.R.E.D](https://www.wired.com/2015/12/bitcoins-creator-satoshi-nakamoto-is-probably-this-unknown-australian-genius/)
and
[Gizmodo](https://gizmodo.com/heres-all-the-evidence-that-craig-wright-invented-bitco-1747059371)
in 2015 which they later retracted after
[pressure](https://gizmodo.com/the-mystery-of-craig-wright-and-bitcoin-isnt-solved-yet-1747576675).
The fall out of this event resulted in Bitcoins single global chain
splitting, not once, but TWICE (2017, 2018) with each time-chain
(timeline) claiming to record events according to the Bitcoin rules set
forth in this paper.

Contrary to popular belief Craig Wright did not participate in the
mining of BCH during the time of the first split in 2017, a mysteriously
hosted node in Asia with the hash power of a miner initiated the fork on
a technical level.

On an [economic level
BitFinex](https://web.archive.org/web/20170324175727/https:/www.bitfinex.com/posts/195)
provided customers trading liquidity to [bet on the
announcement](https://www.bitfinex.com/posts/221) and its code published
by [Amaury
Sechet](https://web.archive.org/web/20250211173158/https:/bitcoinmagazine.com/technical/future-bitcoin-cash-interview-bitcoin-abc-lead-developer-amaury-sechet).
No matter how hard they may try not to be, these lead advocates end up
being the de facto leaders of each resulting chain, those being:

1.  Satoshi Nakamoto Bitcoin Ticker Stated Purpose

2.  Craig Wright, et al. BSV \<- Restore original protocol

3.  Roger Ver, et al. BCH \<- Add functionality

4.  Adam Back, et al. BTC \<- Add functionality

There is a common saying in the military, once is an accident, twice is
happenstance. Three times is enemy action. With three competing chains
and claims to the title of Bitcoin which this paper outlines, the path
of Craig Wright most closely follows the genuine narrative set out by
the errors within the paper. Either this is the voice of GOD for some
reason pointing to Craig Wright as a Manchurian Candidate or, more
logically, Craig Wright is, in fact, who he claims to be. Satoshi
Nakamoto.

For all the hype there are several things that Bitcoin can and cannot
do. It is not an oracle. An oracle outputs a truth from an input in a
defined single step. Bitcoin cannot do this, truth is not a single even,
it is many stacked on top of one another to produce an outcome. Thus, no
machine can ever be an oracle because a machine no matter how hard you
may try to program it to determine what is true and what is not. A
machine is bounded by their own limits and cannot perform this task,
humans struggle with it how could we ever expect a machine to understand
truth from fiction. Bitcoin practically demonstrates any this. It will
record whatever you pay for. It’s the source that is the oracle, and the
source isn’t a machine, it is a being that programs one.

A machine is a physically limited mechanical systems that come to a
result, not determines the truth, only humans, without could reason
through a creative non-random process can accomplish such a thing. We
can only interpret what is recorded for ourselves, turning seemingly
random data into information for others to consume as clearly as we
attempt to communicate it.

On the final moments of editing a contributor zer0dt on the X platform,
pointed out one of the most compelling pieces of evidence that Dr Criag
Wright is the one that placed his name within the paper and thus
authored it. In 2008, the year of the papers publication, Dr Wright also
published a paper [DETECTING
HYDAN](https://www.giac.org/paper/gcih/6896/detecting-hydan-statistical-methods-classifying-hydan-based-stegonagraphy-executable-files/107335)
for the Global Information Assurance Certification (GIAC), in it he
describes “Statistical Methods for Classifying the use of Hyden based
Stegonography in Executable Files”. This version of steganography is
much more advanced and complex than what we have accomplished in this
paper and is likely a very strong indication that there is more to
uncover with respect to Bitcoin and Steganography.

As I contemplate how the world might change after reading this
information, I can’t help but wonder, what would have happened if I had
not have found it. Are people even waiting or expecting it? I have a
suspicion that the people this technology threatens, and targets know
all too well that this steganography proof exists, I have reason to
believe that they have already decoded it and know that Craig Wright was
Satoshi Nakamoto. In fact, I have reason to believe it is the entire
reason he currently has been slapped with a [suspended prison sentence
forbidding](https://www.wired.com/story/craig-wright-the-self-styled-creator-of-bitcoin-handed-suspended-prison-sentence/)
him to claim to be Satoshi Nakamoto under threat of further imprisonment
and fines. This injunction currently has prevented him from commenting
on anything related to this decode during writing this document. At the
time of publication, he is unable to discuss why his name is embedded
within the paper using steganography. He is the only person in the world
to have his speech restricted in this way and to everyone but him, this
is supposed to be new information. This circumstance should give
everyone with the knowledge in this report a reason to double check
their core assumptions of the blockchain and cryptocurrency industries.

To end my conclusion, I would like to explain something about
communication using a quote from an unknown Zen master, this quote while
used by Alan Watts many times has a much more subtle meaning to the
military and intelligence agencies, they hope to instil their troops
with an idea. That idea is action with as little communication as needed
or as a Zen master puts it:

**The sound of rain needs no translation.**

# What happens next?

Phase 2 of bitcoins life. Hopefully. We should be leaving the foolish
years of its adolescence and becoming a stable foundation that the world
can build its systems within.

Many of us are probably wondering what the man himself would like to say
about this. Well as per court instructions he has not answered a single
question I have had with regards to the origin of bitcoin since the
ruling against him was passed down. I feel that this is a great loss of
talent and is an injustice to all those who are currently falling victim
blockchain and crypto shams and scams. The people that are enriching
themselves are currently surrounding each countries governments hoping
to provide them with their own flavour of the world changing invention
that doesn’t scale. Except, its creator has now scaled his vision to be
more capable than [any other core banking
system](https://aerospike.com/press-release/bsv-association-and-aerospike-achieve-100-billion-bsv-blockchain/)
in existence. For all the talk of centralisation vs decentralization, AS
LONG AS the protocol doesn’t change it won’t be LONG BEFORE everyone has
gotten used to the way the new things are.

<img src="media/image23.jpeg" style="width:0.84306in;height:0.84306in"
alt="Image" />Dr Craig Wright through his account on X.com
[@CSTOMINAGA](https://x.com/CsTominaga) is at least aware that this
decode has happened by an independent third party. Although he hasn’t
commented on it directly, he has made a few posts which I see of words
of encouragement to me while I attempt to explain his actions:

[Mar 7, 2025](https://x.com/CsTominaga/status/1897883967589957850)

Writing is a slow reckoning, a confrontation between what is and what
could be. It begins as an impulse, a fragment of something unfinished,
clawing its way to the surface. To write is to carve into silence, to
demand meaning from absence. It does not come easy. It should not. There
is nothing easy about peeling back the skin of a moment and pressing it
onto a page. A story that lingers is never just a story—it is a
reckoning, a weight, a thing that refuses to be ignored.

Style is not something that can be chosen. It is revealed, slowly,
through the act of writing itself. What has changed is not my style, but
my understanding of it. The silence between sentences has grown heavier.
Dialogue is not just words exchanged—it is a battlefield, a negotiation.
There are no wasted lines. Every breath matters. The air between words
must carry its own weight, thick with what is left unsaid. In this, I
have learned restraint. The tendency to explain, to guide the reader too
closely, has been stripped away. What remains is sharper, leaner,
unwilling to give more than is necessary. The best writing does not
lead; it pulls. It demands that the reader step forward into the dark,
unbidden.

Readers are unpredictable things. They bring their own ghosts, their own
histories, and so they do not always see what was intended. This is the
risk of writing, the inevitability of it. Some saw the war as backdrop,
the romance as peripheral, but this was never just a war story, never
just a romance. It was about consequence. About the weight of a single
decision. About the way silence can speak louder than a bullet. Some
understood. Some did not. That is the nature of stories. If I have
learned anything, it is that the writer does not control the reader’s
interpretation, only the precision of the world they create. The rest
belongs to the space between the lines.

Writing should not be easy. It should bruise. It should ache. That is
what makes it worth reading.

Improvement comes in increments, in fractures of understanding that
widen with each rewrite. The pacing is better. The weight of a moment is
clearer. The silences linger longer. But the flaws are still there. They
always will be. The internal voice of a character—what is held back,
what is revealed—this is where the work remains. The psychology of a
moment is more delicate than the action itself. A gunfight is not
interesting. A man’s hesitation before he pulls the trigger is. That is
where the next stretch of writing will be focused—deepening the internal
war, ensuring that when a decision is made, it is felt, not just read.

Textbooks do not matter. It is the voices of others that does. The
discussions, the arguments, the critiques—this is where writing grew.
Writing is not theory; it is practice. It is sitting in the dark with a
scene that does not work and pressing into it until it breaks open. No
book can teach that. Only the act of writing can. If there is any advice
to be given, it is this: writing is not about knowing. It is about
discovering. Do not seek to control the story. Let it unravel. Follow
it. And when you think you have reached the end, go deeper. There is
always something beneath.

The story is not finished. It never is. Even when the last word is
written, the characters keep moving, their choices reverberating beyond
the page. A good story does not close a door. It leaves it slightly
ajar, the draft whispering of what still lingers beyond it. That is what
I hope this screenplay has done. Not to answer, but to ask. Not to
settle, but to unsettle. Because writing is not about what is given. It
is about what remains.

The man behind the greatest magic trick the world has ever seen, telling
you his fight will never be over, not for him, and not for those that
dedicate their life to the same one. This was not a trick, the stakes
were most definitely real, they still are, it was merely happenstance
and strategy. It’s the worlds secret war in cyberspace having a very
real impact on your life and the life of those around you. I don’t take
it too seriously and I don’t think you should either that is unless you
are prepared to join the fight to make a good bit of difference. There
is no place to sign up, it is just something you commit to doing until
the job you recognise is done, and then you find the next.

Now that humanity has received and hopefully accepted this new way of
looking at old information everyone is probably asking, where do we go
from here. When you realise that no one can tell you that and that is
all up to us individually to make a collective decision on which path to
take with the future of humanity, and that choice will be recorded in
the immutable nature of us. Then I trust that everyone will come to the
same conclusion without the need to communicate to strongly about what
they need to do.

The concept of an anti-meme is becoming more and more meme like. The
theory many people are working with is that for every anti-meme that
come into existence there must be a set of fake memes that proliferate
society as a silent wink to those in the know. When an anti-meme is
exposed, its fake meme is destroyed along with its anti-meme. To create
a fake meme, it requires an anti-meme in which those that create the
fake memes know they are lying and wish to slip an incorrect fact into
the cultural zeitgeist thus fooling others into participating in the
spreading of the fake news and meme. If they come into close enough
proximity, they cancel each other out. If the truth is ever exposed, a
real true meme takes the place of both. A lie creating a paradox within
what is perceived to be true, when it is compared directly and in an
unbiased way leads to the annihilation of the imposter. At least in most
of the minds of readers.

Reality is what you can read, but is that reality?

I’m not sure that words can really describe the critical nature of the
situation. The world is corrupt. So, corrupt that something as pure as
bitcoin, in its meticulous design and its clearly communicated goal, or
its carefully considered launch; was ripped apart piece by piece in
public by a few and their paid for applause yet, no-one in the public
watching felt like they could do anything about it. We are yet to see
what happens but potentially the only thing that prevented the world
progressing further down the darkest of timelines was the unveiling of
its creator.

I’m also not sure what the future holds for me, I guess it depends on
how this information is received. At the moment, although this is a
positive development for me and my way of looking at the world unless
this information changes something I’m

## Additional thoughts in editing room.

I expect I am coming to the end of my own personal editing and addition
of paragraphs while proof reading is taking place by my most valued
supporters.

When trying to decide how to sign this document I, of course, couldn’t
help but think and possibly feel what Satoshi might have gone through
although at his time the stakes were much greater. Time having moved
forward and changed the world quite considerably since 2008, I am
already quite publicly known in the Bitcoin industry, at least to my
fellow enthusiasts. So, when I decided to start to turn these notes into
this report, I had to make a choice; “do I tell others? (or not)”. I
didn’t think twice. “, or not” never had any staying power in my mind or
heart. It was only a question of how to communicate it effectively such
that this matter be put to rest, unequivocally. As such I likely don’t
have the same liberty as they Dr Criag Wright did in publishing this
under a name that is different from my true name. The name I was born
with, and like for most people, is ingrained so deeply in every fibre of
my being in such a unique way that I don’t think I could ever be
separated from it. Given that this topic has been shrouded in mystery
for so long and it’s my reputation amongst these enthusiasts that means
they are willing to support and assist me with this report. It would be
unfair to their contribution to topics dependent on these early events
that they have all helped uncover and distribute so publicly with their
own reputation at stake. A risk they took, not just over the past few
hours, days or even months, but years. One and a half decades. They
along with myself, need some closure on this topic at least, once and
for all.

Everyone has always assumed that Satoshi was using a pseudonym wishing
to hide themselves from those that control the money supply/big tech or
anyone else that bitcoin threatens. Effectively because they feared the
consequences for themselves. On this journey I had a completely
different perspective that I’m almost certain is the case because it
feels so universal to us all, heightened due to the accelerating
technological progress that can feel oppressive. I believe that Dr
Wright did things the way he did not out of fear for himself or others
around him, but because he needed to create a cry for help that everyone
could relate to without it being muddied by the reputation of the person
that blew the whistle. In this way, he didn’t do it for privacy reasons,
likely knowing that no matter how hard he might try he would most likely
be found out anyway, he did it so that we might be able to help
ourselves however long it might take for us to have the motivation to go
out and look in the right places when we know enough about how things
work.

It is not A CRY FOR HELP we hear echoing in the darkness,

it is OUR OWN.

Price of “Bitcoin” at publication:

|     BTC: | \$83,247.25 |
|---------:|------------:|
| **BSV:** | **\$33.51** |

# About the Author of this paper

Alex Fauvel acquired his bachelor’s degree in mechanical engineering
from the University College London (UCL) in 2014. Discovering Bitcoin in
late February 2013 he made the choice to pursue a career in the bitcoin
industry in 2016 and got his first job in the industry as a fundamental
analyst for a cryptocurrency hedge fund in Amsterdam. At the time had
over 100 different blockchain assets within its portfolio and I saw it
as a great opportunity to learn about all the blockchain innovation that
would invariably occur due to the Bitcoin scaling debate and resulting
splits. After a difference of opinion surrounding how Bitcoin should
have a “set in stone” protocol like other internet protocols and could
be developed to scale and dominate the landscape as a single blockchain
as Satoshi described, his contract was not renewed. Staying in
Amsterdam, he then founded a Venture Capital fund with a college, Two
Hop Ventures to finance blockchain start-ups working on the protocol
that most closely aligned with the Bitcoin White Paper. As the ecosystem
developed in positive and negative ways, he then founded a gamified
voting platform allowing users to add their own questions to a global
pool of questions and earn revenue from micropayment if their question
is popular. Finally, as the protocols of Bitcoin (BTC) and Bitcoin (BSV)
have stabilised somewhat, began documenting the differences between BTC
and BSV for a comprehensive video that might help educate people on why
they are different. This research brought me to the cypherpunks mailing
list where I learnt how to read messages hidden within the intentional
errors.

I have had much support in my journey to slay this white whale that has
been plaguing the world. The Bitcoin SV community while full of many
different characters, have among them, some of the best and most
logically inquisitive thinkers the world has. Not all of them supported
this work as they are currently fighting their own battles, and I hope
that this work will help them in theirs. I also hope it will help you in
your own battle to discover the truth, no matter where it may lead.

## Supporters

Supporters/Editors/Contributors names from Patreon and other platforms
in the approximate chronological order they appeared:

**Mohrt, Joel Dalais, Jeff Harris, Todd Price, 1 (@369BSV), Darren
Kellenschwiler, Jorge E. Pelaez, Jerry David Chan, Ken Shishido,
KuzzyBro, John Pitts, ███████, Thomas Jacobson, Timothy Swan, Fredderic
Honohan (@realFredHonohan), Duane Kelly, 1, Erik van Velzen, ██████,
Brenden Lee, Brandon McPherson, No Name, Brodie Brodie, P, Spaghetti
Spagoodle, XBitBountySv NixNutz24, Michael McCall, Vinny Lingham,
CryptoTweek, Dsp28, Lorien Gamaroff, ██████, Juan Llosas, Jorge Heredia,
Gabriel Felipe Alves Borges, Connor Murray, Karren Sem, James Ruff,
bnafOG, Hodor, Shirl3y, Wolfgang Lohmann, Keith, Ross E, Onchain Zen,
Brett C. Banfe, Cope, Ryan Wold, Len Mazur, TAMB2WTW, Gary, David
Wilson, Qrious, Vince LaBido, The Enchanted Prince, Gavin Mhel, Spot,
Cameron J. Gray, Grumpyoldman, ACE, Scott, r cunn, Stephan Morgan,
Samuel Wilson, senortoshi, Joseph, Olivers Wilde, Olivers Wilde, Will
Townsend, Amy Voluntary, Genius4Hire, Michael Needham, oudekaas,
BeardPappa, Matt Welsh, Gal Buki, Mark Piters, Stegosaurus**

To support me in works like this and many other things the best way to
do is by subscribing to the Investigation7 Patreon page, if you just
want to chat, I’m @Roman_de_Fauvel on X.com, I want to produce more
digestible videos on these topics but will only be able to do so with
your support:

**Patreon**

**BSV**

**YouTube**

**X.com**

Patreon:
[patreon.com/investigation7](https://www.patreon.com/investigation7)  
BSV donations: <$alex@handcash.io> or
1BUmFLR5Bmba4ZfGyNLS2xfVzxB3ydrZnu  
Videos: <youtube.com/@alexfauvel7611>  
Public Chat: [x.com/roman_de_fauvel](https://x.com/roman_de_fauvel)

**I will be moving content posts 100% to the blockchain at some point in
the future and some content will be there exclusively. Where and when
isn’t known yet as things are so fresh. If you want to know where I will
appear next then follow me on X.  
**

# Copyright notice – MIT License

Copyright (c) 2025 ALEXANDER L FAUVEL

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a
copy of this document and files (the "Decode"), to deal in the reading
and distribution without restriction, including without limitation the
rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
and/or sell copies of the document, and to permit persons to whom the
document is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included
in all copies or substantial portions of the document.

THE DOCUMENT IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY
CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,
TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE
DOCUMENT OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE DOCUMENTS.

# Conflicts of interest statement

*The author has been involved in the blockchain industry since 2013 and
over the past 10 years and has a financial interest in several
blockchain related businesses all related to the blockchain industry.
This bias is not reflected in the methodology as the author has no
ability to change the elements within the paper that are of interest
from a steganographic analysis perspective.*

# Further work

Sections 3,6,8,9 ,11 and 12 don’t seem to have any steganographic
manipulation to speak of all though the longer I look the more I’m
seeing, especially with respect to spell check. There maybe things that
I have missed and are worth going over with fresh eyes. The list might
say something else. Even if just a small hint to guide someone to the
correct result. If it is another full message string, then to create it
would first require creating both sets of words that they want to embed
and then check that they have similar letters in similar positions. Then
try and construct a third set of sentences that is legible and has both
sets of letters pop out for independent rules. This sounds like a tall
task but achievable. Knowing Dr Craig Wright, I’m almost certain that he
wouldn’t bother as it sounds an awful lot like a three-body-problem.

Until someone has found the rules suggesting that is the case, only one
man really knows, and he isn’t allowed to discuss it.

In the late stages of editing contributor CryptoTweek provided a Bitcoin
White Paper he claims to be from 2008. Although I have no way of
verifying its authenticity as of this moment it seems to have most the
same steganographic features we highlighted. Also note is that although
the line breaks in many places are different. There seems to have been
some changes that effected the positions of line breaks in some areas
but in all the places we have a hyphen at the end of a line, we still
have them. This could be seen as stronger evidence that this hyphen at
the end of a line feature is an intentional way to hide the extra space
signalling steganography hidden within it.

The hash in comparison to the document we have analysed is:

BWP-2009-SHA256:
b1674191a88ec5cdd733e4240a81803105dc412d6c6708d53ab94fc248f4f553

BWP-2008-SHA256:
f5aa8f4b8ea559d4e37052ee6c5b398bc9e1fff86f99ad1d9e3e0a6f64b63c96

You can find a PDF of the paper and one that highlights the differences
marked up hosted on the GitHub/Patreon alongside this document.

<https://github.com/2ndEntropy/TheBitcoinWP-StegDecode>

As an active investigation and analysis of public documents there will
always be more work to be done.

We have also found evidence that Dr Craig Wright may have used
WhiteSpace Steganography software to mark the paper as his own or send a
different secret message. This is worth investigating and if done,
recommend that the investigator start simple and think fundamental, know
the field material and check our source material.

Might be nothing.

### Declaration of original work

I affirm that all work in this document is my original work. Further, I
confirm that all writing is my own writing. I had no instructions from
any individuals or entities, known or unknown about the method to use to
extract the result found. Work and contributions from others has been
cited and linked appropriately.

### Signed:

<img src="media/image32.png" style="width:2.93791in;height:1.50021in"
alt="A black signature on a white background AI-generated content may be incorrect." />

- Fauvel (?)

> L.

# Appendix A

Overview of most basic method.

**Main message:**

Element: List in Network Chapter 5

Reason: Final number indicated by reference element.

Uses: Decode for full message.

**Inferred instructions:**

Punctuation infers items such as blocks. -\> Find a block, find letter
of message

Missing hyphen in non-reversible -\> Start at end of list

Comma misplacement – (received), (found) -\> Replace f with r

“The tie will be broken” }

“becomes longer;” } -\> Swap lines denoted by ‘;’ and ‘:’

“switch to the longer one” }

Repeated words “As long as … before long.” –\> Remove ALONG, Recover S
in round 2

Comma is a round start -\> New round remove summation filters

“Packet loss” }

“Dropped messages” } -\> at least 1 letter is not correct

“Realises it missed one”. }

**Applied Result and method:**

Cumulative Frequency analysis of letters between each punctuation point
starting from end with applied filters and resetting at line 3.

3.D) Each node works on finding a difficult proof-of-work for its block.

2.C) Each node collects new transactions into a block.

1.S) New transactions are broadcast to all nodes.

0.W) The steps to run the network are as follows:

4.R) When a node finds a proof-of-work,

5.I) it broadcasts the block to all nodes.

6.C) Nodes accept the block only if all transactions in it are valid and
not already spent.

7.H) using the hash of the accepted block as the previous hash.

8.T) Nodes express their acceptance of the block by working on creating
the next block in the chain,

Interpretation:

WSCDRICHT =\> D.CSW WRIGHT

Transmission errors: G missing its internal line so appears as C.

---

**Message CheckSum:**

Element: \[7\]\[5\]\[2\]

Reason: out of order against convention

Uses: Chapters of interest and letters of checksum within references

**Applied Result:**

References: find characters in position of indicated by next reference
(ROT1)

\[7\]: C (position 2)

\[2\]: S (position 5)

\[5\]: W (position 7)

**Chapters:**

\[Key\] \[7\]: where the element was found

\[-\] \[2\]: Missing hyphen in otherwise hyphenated word “double
spending”

\[List\] \[5\]: list of steps to run the network

---

**Puzzle completion check:**

\[10 (binary for 2)\]: time and size of individual trades, the "tape"

Leads to references \[7\],\[5\],\[2\] back to checksum/key.

# Appendix ,,B”

Text of the BITCOIN WP, all formatting text, punctuation maintained
except for line breaks and equations such that it is more legible.

Author of this report has highlighted errors used as instructions and
results where appropriate.

**Bitcoin: A Peer-to-Peer Electronic Cash System**

Satoshi Nakamoto

satoshin@gmx.com

[www.bitcoin.org](http://www.bitcoin.org)

**Abstract.** A purely peer-to-peer version of electronic cash would
allow online

payments to be sent directly from one party to another without going
through a

financial institution. Digital signatures provide part of the solution,
but the main benefits are lost if a trusted third party is still
required to prevent double-spending. We propose a solution to the
double-spending problem using a peer-to-peer network. The network
timestamps transactions by hashing them into an ongoing chain of
hash-based proof-of-work, forming a record that cannot be changed
without redoing the proof-of-work. The longest chain not only serves as
proof of the sequence of events witnessed, but proof that it came from
the largest pool of CPU power. As long as a majority of CPU power is
controlled by nodes that are not cooperating to attack the network,
they'll generate the longest chain and outpace attackers. The network
itself requires minimal structure. Messages are broadcast on a best
effort basis, and nodes can leave and rejoin the network at will,
accepting the longest proof-of-work chain as proof of what happened
while they were gone.

**1. Introduction**

Commerce on the Internet has come to rely almost exclusively on
financial institutions serving as trusted third parties to process
electronic payments. While the system works well enough for most
transactions, it still suffers from the inherent weaknesses of the trust
based model. Completely non-reversible transactions are not really
possible, since financial institutions cannot avoid mediating disputes.
The cost of mediation increases transaction costs, limiting the minimum
practical transaction size and cutting off the possibility for small
casual transactions, and there is a broader cost in the loss of ability
to make non-reversible payments for non reversible services. With the
possibility of reversal, the need for trust spreads. Merchants must be
wary of their customers, hassling them for more information than they
would otherwise need. A certain percentage of fraud is accepted as
unavoidable. These costs and payment uncertainties can be avoided in
person by using physical currency, but no mechanism exists to make
payments over a communications channel without a trusted party.

What is needed is an electronic payment system based on cryptographic
proof instead of trust, allowing any two willing parties to transact
directly with each other without the need for a trusted third party.
Transactions that are computationally impractical to reverse would
protect sellers from fraud, and routine escrow mechanisms could easily
be implemented to protect buyers. In this paper, we propose a solution
to the double-spending problem using a peer-to-peer distributed
timestamp server to generate computational proof of the chronological
order of transactions. The system is secure as long as honest nodes
collectively control more CPU power than any cooperating group of
attacker nodes.

*page number -\>* 1

--- page break ---

**2. Transactions**

We define an electronic coin as a chain of digital signatures. Each
owner ransfers the coin to the next by digitally signing a hash of the
previous transaction and the public key of the next owner and adding
these to the end of the coin. A payee can verify the signatures to
verify the chain of ownership.

<img src="media/image33.png" style="width:4.30329in;height:2.53401in"
alt="A diagram of a sign AI-generated content may be incorrect." />

The problem of course is the payee can't verify that one of the owners
did not double-spend the coin. A common solution is to introduce a
trusted central authority, or mint, that checks every transaction for
double spending. After each transaction, the coin must be returned to
the mint to issue a new coin, and only coins issued directly from the
mint are trusted not to be double-spent. The problem with this solution
is that the fate of the entire money system depends on the company
running the mint, with every transaction having to go through them, just
like a bank.

We need a way for the payee to know that the previous owners did not
sign any earlier transactions. For our purposes, the earliest
transaction is the one that counts, so we don't care about later
attempts to double-spend. The only way to confirm the absence of a
transaction is to be aware of all transactions. In the mint based model,
the mint was aware of all transactions and decided which arrived first.
To accomplish this without a trusted party, transactions must be
publicly announced \[1\], and we need a system for participants to agree
on a single history of the order in which they were received. The payee
needs proof that at the time of each transaction, the majority of nodes
agreed it was the first received.

**3. Timestamp Server**

The solution we propose begins with a timestamp server. A timestamp
server works by taking a hash of a block of items to be timestamped and
widely publishing the hash, such as in a newspaper or Usenet post
\[2-5\]. The timestamp proves that the data must have existed at the
time, obviously, in order to get into the hash. Each timestamp includes
the previous timestamp in its hash, forming a chain, with each
additional timestamp reinforcing the ones before it.

<img src="media/image34.png" style="width:4.33778in;height:1.59747in"
alt="A screenshot of a computer AI-generated content may be incorrect." />

*page number -\>* 2

--- page break ---

**4. Proof-of-Work**

To implement a distributed timestamp server on a peer-to-peer basis, we
will need to use a proofof-work system similar to ~~Adam~~ ~~Back's~~
~~Hashcash~~ ~~\[6\]~~, rather than newspaper or Usenet posts. The
proof-of-work involves scanning for a value that when hashed, such as
with SHA-256, the hash begins with a number of zero bits. The average
work required is exponential in the number of zero bits required and can
be verified by executing a single hash.

For our timestamp network, we implement the proof-of-work by
incrementing a nonce in the block until a value is found that gives the
block's hash the required zero bits. Once the CPU effort has been
expended to make it satisfy the proof-of-work, the block cannot be
changed without redoing the work. As later blocks are chained after it,
the work to change the block would include redoing all the blocks after
it.

<img src="media/image35.png" style="width:4.76158in;height:1.19752in"
alt="A screenshot of a computer AI-generated content may be incorrect." />

The proof-of-work also solves the problem of determining representation
in majority decision making. If the majority were based on
one-IP-address-one-vote, it could be subverted by anyone able to
allocate many IPs. Proof-of-work is essentially one-CPU-one-vote. The
majority decision is represented by the longest chain, which has the
greatest proof-of-work effort invested in it. If a majority of CPU power
is controlled by honest nodes, the honest chain will grow the fastest
and outpace any competing chains. To modify a past block, an attacker
would have to redo the proof-of-work of the block and all blocks after
it and then catch up with and surpass the

work of the honest nodes. We will show later that the probability of a
slower attacker catching up diminishes exponentially as subsequent
blocks are added.

To compensate for increasing hardware speed and varying interest in
running nodes over time, the proof-of-work difficulty is determined by a
moving average targeting an average number of blocks per hour. If
they're generated too fast, the difficulty increases.

**5. Network**

\[W\] The steps to run the network are as follows:

**\[S\]** 1) New transactions are broadcast to all nodes.

**\[C\]** 2) Each node collects new transactions into a block.

**\[D**\] 3) Each node works on finding a difficult proof-of-work for
its block.

**\[R,I\]** 4) When a node finds a proof-of-work, it broadcasts the
block to all nodes.

**\[G**\] 5) Nodes accept the block only if all transactions in it are
valid and not already spent.

\[T,H\] 6) Nodes express their acceptance of the block by working on
creating the next block in the chain, using the hash of the accepted
block as the previous hash.

Nodes always consider the longest chain to be the correct one and will
keep working on extending it. If two nodes broadcast different versions
of the next block simultaneously, some nodes may receive one or the
other first. In that case, they work on the first one they received, but
save the other branch in case it becomes longer. The tie will be broken
when the next proofof-work is found and one branch becomes longer; the
nodes that were working on the other branch will then switch to the
longer one.

*page number -\>* 3

--- page break ---

New transaction broadcasts do not necessarily need to reach all nodes.
As long as they reach many nodes, they will get into a block before
long. Block broadcasts are also tolerant of dropped messages. If a node
does not receive a block, it will request it when it receives the next
block and realizes it missed one.

**6. Incentive**

By convention, the first transaction in a block is a special transaction
that starts a new coin owned by the creator of the block. This adds an
incentive for nodes to support the network, and provides a way to
initially distribute coins into circulation, since there is no central
authority to issue them. The steady addition of a constant of amount of
new coins is analogous to gold miners expending resources to add gold to
circulation. In our case, it is **CPU** time and electricity that is
expended.

*The incentive can also be funded with transaction fees. If the output
value of a transaction is less than its input value, the difference is a
transaction fee that is added to the incentive value of the block
containing the transaction. Once a predetermined number of coins have
entered circulation, the incentive can transition entirely to
transaction fees and be completely inflation free.*

The incentive may help encourage nodes to stay honest. If a greedy
attacker is able to assemble more **CPU** power than all the honest
nodes, he would have to choose between using it to defraud people by
stealing back his payments, or using it to generate new coins. He ought
to find it more profitable to play by the rules, such rules that favour
him with more new coins than everyone else combined, than to undermine
the system and the validity of his own wealth.

**7. Reclaiming Disk Space**

Once the latest transaction in a coin is buried under enough blocks, the
spent transactions before it can be discarded to save disk space. To
facilitate this without breaking the block's hash, transactions are
hashed in a Merkle Tree **<u>\[7\]\[2\]\[5\]</u>**, with only the root
included in the block's hash. Old blocks can then be compacted by
stubbing off branches of the tree. The interior hashes do not need to be
stored.

<img src="media/image36.png" style="width:4.30347in;height:2.40253in"
alt="A screenshot of a diagram AI-generated content may be incorrect." />

A block header with no transactions would be about 80 bytes. If we
suppose blocks are generated every 10 minutes, 80 bytes \* 6 \* 24 \*
365 = 4.2MB per year. With computer systems typically selling with 2GB
of RAM as of 2008, and Moore's Law predicting current growth of 1.2GB
per year, storage should not be a problem even if the block headers must
be kept in memory.

*page number -\>* 4

--- page break ---

**8. Simplified Payment Verification**

It is possible to verify payments without running a full network node. A
user only needs to keep a copy of the block headers of the longest
proof-of-work chain, which he can get by querying network nodes until
he's convinced he has the longest chain, and obtain the Merkle branch
linking the transaction to the block it's timestamped in. He can't check
the transaction for himself, but by linking it to a place in the chain,
he can see that a network node has accepted it, and blocks added after
it further confirm the network has accepted it.

<img src="media/image37.png" style="width:5.12932in;height:2.24642in"
alt="A diagram of a blockchain AI-generated content may be incorrect." />

As such, the verification is reliable as long as honest nodes control
the network, but is more vulnerable if the network is overpowered by an
attacker. While network nodes can verify transactions for themselves,
the simplified method can be fooled by an attacker's fabricated
transactions for as long as the attacker can continue to overpower the
network. One strategy to protect against this would be to accept alerts
from network nodes when they detect an invalid block, prompting the
user's software to download the full block and alerted transactions to
confirm the inconsistency. Businesses that receive frequent payments
will probably still want to run their own nodes for more independent
security and quicker verification.

**9. Combining and Splitting Value**

Although it would be possible to handle coins individually, it would be
unwieldy to make a separate transaction for every cent in a transfer. To
allow value to be split and combined, transactions contain multiple
inputs and outputs. Normally there will be either a single input from a
larger previous transaction or multiple inputs combining smaller
amounts, and at most two outputs: one for the payment, and one returning
the change, if any, back to the sender.

<img src="media/image38.png" style="width:2.65275in;height:1.65902in"
alt="A diagram of a transaction AI-generated content may be incorrect." />

It should be noted that fan-out, where a transaction depends on several
transactions, and those transactions depend on many more, is not a
problem here. There is never the need to extract a complete standalone
copy of a transaction's history.

*page number -\>* 5

--- page break ---

**10. Privacy**

The traditional banking model achieves a level of privacy by limiting
access to information to the parties involved and the trusted third
party. The necessity to announce all transactions publicly precludes
this method, but privacy can still be maintained by breaking the flow of
information in another place: by keeping public keys anonymous. The
public can see that someone is sending an amount to someone else, but
without information linking the transaction to anyone. This is similar
to the level of information released by stock exchanges, where the time
and size of individual trades, the "tape", is made public, but without
telling who the parties were.

<img src="media/image39.png" style="width:4.94178in;height:1.50892in"
alt="A diagram of a company AI-generated content may be incorrect." />

As an additional firewall, a new key pair should be used for each
transaction to keep them from being linked to a common owner. Some
linking is still unavoidable with multi-input transactions, which
necessarily reveal that their inputs were owned by the same owner. The
risk is that if the owner of a key is revealed, linking could reveal
other transactions that belonged to the same owner.

**11. Calculations**

We consider the scenario of an attacker trying to generate an alternate
chain faster than the honest chain. Even if this is accomplished, it
does not throw the system open to arbitrary changes, such as creating
value out of thin air or taking money that never belonged to the
attacker. Nodes are not going to accept an invalid transaction as
payment, and honest nodes will never accept a block containing them. An
attacker can only try to change one of his own transactions to take back
money he recently spent.

The race between the honest chain and an attacker chain can be
characterized as a Binomial Random Walk. The success event is the honest
chain being extended by one block, increasing its lead by +1, and the
failure event is the attacker's chain being extended by one block,
reducing the gap by -1.

The probability of an attacker catching up from a given deficit is
analogous to a Gambler's Ruin problem. Suppose a gambler with unlimited
credit starts at a deficit and plays potentially an infinite number of
trials to try to reach breakeven. We can calculate the probability he
ever reaches breakeven, or that an attacker ever catches up with the
honest chain, as follows \[8\]:

*p* = probability an honest node finds the next block

*q* = probability the attacker finds the next block

*q<sub>z</sub>* = probability the attacker will ever catch up from z
blocks behind

*q<sub>z</sub>*= {1 *if p* ≤ *q, (q* / *p*) *z if p* \< *q*} *\<-
formatted for reading*

*page number -\>* 6

--- page break ---

Given our assumption that *p \> q*, the probability drops exponentially
as the number of blocks the attacker has to catch up with increases.
With the odds against him, if he doesn't make a lucky lunge forward
early on, his chances become vanishingly small as he falls further
behind.

We now consider how long the recipient of a new transaction needs to
wait before being sufficiently certain the sender can't change the
transaction. We assume the sender is an attacker who wants to make the
recipient believe he paid him for a while, then switch it to pay back to
himself after some time has passed. The receiver will be alerted when
that happens, but the sender hopes it will be too late.

The receiver generates a new key pair and gives the public key to the
sender shortly before signing. This prevents the sender from preparing a
chain of blocks ahead of time by working on it continuously until he is
lucky enough to get far enough ahead, then executing the transaction at
that moment. Once the transaction is sent, the dishonest sender starts
working in secret on a parallel chain containing an alternate version of
his transaction.

The recipient waits until the transaction has been added to a block and
*z* blocks have been linked after it. He doesn't know the exact amount
of progress the attacker has made, but assuming the honest blocks took
the average expected time per block, the attacker's potential progress
will be a Poisson distribution with expected value:

λ=*z(q/p)*

To get the probability the attacker could still catch up now, we
multiply the Poisson density for each amount of progress he could have
made by the probability he could catch up from that point:

<sub>∞</sub>

Σ λ*<sup>k</sup> e*<sup>−λ</sup> / *k*!⋅
{(*q*/*p)<sup>z</sup>*<sup>−*k*</sup> *if k* ≤ *z,* 1 *if k*\>*z*}

<sup>*k*=0</sup>

Rearranging to avoid summing the infinite tail of the distribution...

<sub>z</sub>

1 –Σ λ*<sup>k</sup> e*<sup>−λ</sup> / *k*!⋅
{1-(*q*/*p)<sup>z</sup>*<sup>−*k*</sup>}

<sup>*k*=0</sup>

Converting to C code...

\#include \<math.h\>

double AttackerSuccessProbability(double q, int z)

{

> double p = 1.0 - q;
>
> double lambda = z \* (q / p);
>
> double sum = 1.0;
>
> int i, k;
>
> for (k = 0; k \<= z; k++)
>
> {
>
> double poisson = exp(-lambda);
>
> for (i = 1; i \<= k; i++)
>
> poisson \*= lambda / i;
>
> sum -= poisson \* (1 - pow(q / p, z - k));
>
> }
>
> return sum;

}

*page number -\>* 7

--- page break ---

Running some results, we can see the probability drop off exponentially
with z.

> q=0.1
>
> z=0 P=1.0000000
>
> z=1 P=0.2045873
>
> z=2 P=0.0509779
>
> z=3 P=0.0131722
>
> z=4 P=0.0034552
>
> z=5 P=0.0009137
>
> z=6 P=0.0002428
>
> z=7 P=0.0000647
>
> z=8 P=0.0000173
>
> z=9 P=0.0000046
>
> z=10 P=0.0000012
>
> q=0.3
>
> z=0 P=1.0000000
>
> z=5 P=0.1773523
>
> z=10 P=0.0416605
>
> z=15 P=0.0101008
>
> z=20 P=0.0024804
>
> z=25 P=0.0006132
>
> z=30 P=0.0001522
>
> z=35 P=0.0000379
>
> z=40 P=0.0000095
>
> z=45 P=0.0000024
>
> z=50 P=0.0000006

Solving for P less than 0.1%...

> P \< 0.001
>
> q=0.10 z=5
>
> q=0.15 z=8
>
> q=0.20 z=11
>
> q=0.25 z=15
>
> q=0.30 z=24
>
> q=0.35 z=41
>
> q=0.40 z=89
>
> q=0.45 z=340

**12. Conclusion**

We have proposed a system for electronic transactions without relying on
trust. We started with the usual framework of coins made from digital
signatures, which provides strong control of ownership, but is
incomplete without a way to prevent double-spending. To solve this, we
proposed a peer-to-peer network using proof-of-work to record a public
history of transactions that quickly becomes computationally impractical
for an attacker to change if honest nodes control a majority of CPU
power. The network is robust in its unstructured simplicity. Nodes work
all at once with little coordination. They do not need to be identified,
since messages are not routed to any particular place and only need to
be delivered on a best effort basis. Nodes can leave and rejoin the
network at will, accepting the proof-of-work chain as proof of what
happened while they were gone. They vote with their CPU power,
expressing their acceptance of valid blocks by working on extending them
and rejecting invalid blocks by refusing to work on them. Any needed
rules and incentives can be enforced with this consensus mechanism.

*page number -\>* 8

--- page break ---

**References**

\[1\] W. Dai, "b-money," http://www.weidai.com/bmoney.txt, 1998.

\[2\] H. Massias, X.S. Avila, and J.-J. Quisquater, "Design of a secure
timestamping service with minimal trust requirements," In *20th
Symposium on Information Theory in the Benelux*, May 1999.

\[3\] S. Haber, W.S. Stornetta, "How to time-stamp a digital document,"
In *Journal of Cryptology*, vol 3, no 2, pages 99-111, 1991.

\[4\] D. Bayer, S. Haber, W.S. Stornetta, "Improving the efficiency and
reliability of digital time-stamping," In *Sequences II: Methods in
Communication, Security and Computer Science*, pages 329-334, 1993.

\[5\] S. Haber, W.S. Stornetta, "Secure names for bit-strings," In
*Proceedings of the 4th ACM Conference on Computer and Communications
Security*, pages 28-35, April 1997.

\[6\] A. Back, "Hashcash - a denial of service counter-measure,"
http://www.hashcash.org/papers/hashcash.pdf, 2002.

\[7\] R.C. Merkle, "Protocols for public key cryptosystems," In *Proc.
1980 Symposium on Security and Privacy*, IEEE Computer Society, pages
122-133, April 1980.

\[8\] W. Feller, "An introduction to probability theory and its
applications," 1957.

*page number -\>* 9

--- End of Document ---

# Appendix C,..

<img src="media/image40.png" style="width:6.18836in;height:8.70955in"
alt="A close-up of a document AI-generated content may be incorrect." />
